UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

☒    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

☐    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

or

For the fiscal year ended September 26, 2020

For the transition period from              to             .

Commission File Number: 001-36743

Apple Inc.

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

California

(State or other jurisdiction

of incorporation or organization)

One Apple Park Way
Cupertino, California

(Address of principal executive offices)

94-2404110

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

95014

(Zip Code)

(408) 996-1010

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Common Stock, $0.00001 par value per share

Trading 
symbol(s)
AAPL

1.000% Notes due 2022
1.375% Notes due 2024
0.000% Notes due 2025
0.875% Notes due 2025
1.625% Notes due 2026
2.000% Notes due 2027
1.375% Notes due 2029
3.050% Notes due 2029
0.500% Notes due 2031
3.600% Notes due 2042

—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

Name of each exchange on which registered

The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC
The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC
The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC
The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC
The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC
The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC
The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC
The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC
The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC
The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC
The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

Yes  ☒     No  ☐

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.

Yes  ☐     No  ☒

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act 
of  1934  during  the  preceding  12  months  (or  for  such  shorter  period  that  the  Registrant  was  required  to  file  such  reports),  and  (2)  has  been 
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes  ☒     No  ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 
405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to 
submit such files).

Yes  ☒     No  ☐

Indicate  by  check  mark  whether  the  Registrant  is  a  large  accelerated  filer,  an  accelerated  filer,  a  non-accelerated  filer,  a  smaller  reporting 
company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and 
“emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer

Non-accelerated filer

☒
☐

Accelerated filer

Smaller reporting company

Emerging growth company

☐
☐
☐

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the Registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with 
any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.          ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its 
internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting 
firm that prepared or issued its audit report.          ☒

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).

Yes  ☐     No  ☒

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant, as of March 27, 2020, the last business 
day  of  the  Registrant’s  most  recently  completed  second  fiscal  quarter,  was  approximately  $1,070,633,000,000.  Solely  for  purposes  of  this 
disclosure, shares of common stock held by executive officers and directors of the Registrant as of such date have been excluded because such 
persons  may  be  deemed  to  be  affiliates.  This  determination  of  executive  officers  and  directors  as  affiliates  is  not  necessarily  a  conclusive 
determination for any other purposes.

17,001,802,000 shares of common stock were issued and outstanding as of October 16, 2020.

Portions  of  the  Registrant’s  definitive  proxy  statement  relating  to  its 2021  annual  meeting  of  shareholders  (the  “2021  Proxy  Statement”)  are 
incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K where indicated. The 2021 Proxy Statement will be filed with the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year to which this report relates.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Apple Inc.

Form 10-K

For the Fiscal Year Ended September 26, 2020

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Business
Risk Factors
Unresolved Staff Comments
Properties
Legal Proceedings
Mine Safety Disclosures

Part I

Part II

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity 

Securities

Selected Financial Data
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
Controls and Procedures
Other Information

Part III

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
Executive Compensation
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
Principal Accountant Fees and Services

Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules
Form 10-K Summary

Part IV

Page

1
5
15
15
16
16

17

19
20
28
30
62
62
62

63
63
63
63
63

64
66

Item 1.
Item 1A.
Item 1B.
Item 2.
Item 3.
Item 4.

Item 5.

Item 6.
Item 7.
Item 7A.
Item 8.
Item 9.
Item 9A.
Item 9B.

Item 10.
Item 11.
Item 12.
Item 13.
Item 14.

Item 15.
Item 16.

This  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  (“Form  10-K”)  contains  forward-looking  statements,  within  the  meaning  of  the  Private 
Securities  Litigation  Reform  Act  of  1995,  that  involve  risks  and  uncertainties.  Many  of  the  forward-looking  statements  are 
located in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition 
and  Results  of  Operations.”  Forward-looking  statements  provide  current  expectations  of  future  events  based  on  certain 
assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. For example, statements in 
this  Form  10-K  regarding  the  potential  future  impact  of  the  COVID-19  pandemic  on  the  Company’s  business  and  results  of 
operations  are  forward-looking  statements.  Forward-looking  statements  can  also  be  identified  by  words  such  as  “future,” 
“anticipates,”  “believes,”  “estimates,”  “expects,”  “intends,”  “plans,”  “predicts,”  “will,”  “would,”  “could,”  “can,”  “may,”  and 
similar  terms.  Forward-looking  statements  are  not  guarantees  of  future  performance  and  the  Company’s  actual  results  may 
differ  significantly  from  the  results  discussed  in  the  forward-looking  statements.  Factors  that  might  cause  such  differences 
include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  those  discussed  in  Part  I,  Item  1A  of  this  Form  10-K  under  the  heading  “Risk  Factors.”  The 
Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law.

Unless  otherwise  stated,  all  information  presented  herein  is  based  on  the  Company’s  fiscal  calendar,  and  references  to 
particular  years,  quarters,  months  or  periods  refer  to  the  Company’s  fiscal  years  ended  in  September  and  the  associated 
quarters,  months  and  periods  of  those  fiscal  years.  Each  of  the  terms  the  “Company”  and  “Apple”  as  used  herein  refers 
collectively to Apple Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated.

PART I

Item 1. 

Business

Company Background

The Company designs, manufactures and markets smartphones, personal computers, tablets, wearables and accessories, and 
sells  a  variety  of  related  services.  The  Company’s  fiscal  year  is  the  52-  or  53-week  period  that  ends  on  the  last  Saturday  of 
September. The Company is a California corporation established in 1977.

Products

iPhone
iPhone® is the Company’s line of smartphones based on its iOS operating system. During 2020, the Company released a new 
iPhone SE. In October 2020, the Company announced four new iPhone models with 5G technology: iPhone 12 and iPhone 12 
Pro were available starting in October 2020, and iPhone 12 Pro Max and iPhone 12 mini are both expected to be available in 
November 2020.

Mac
Mac® is the Company’s line of personal computers based on its macOS® operating system. During 2020, the Company released 
a new 16-inch MacBook Pro®, a fully redesigned Mac Pro®, and updated versions of its MacBook Air®, 13-inch MacBook Pro and 
27-inch iMac®.

iPad
iPad®  is  the  Company’s  line  of  multi-purpose  tablets  based  on  its  iPadOS®  operating  system.  During  2020,  the  Company 
released an updated iPad Pro®. In September 2020, the Company released an eighth-generation iPad and introduced an all-new 
iPad Air®, which was available starting in October 2020.

Wearables, Home and Accessories
Wearables, Home and Accessories includes AirPods®, Apple TV®, Apple Watch®, Beats® products, HomePod®, iPod touch® and 
other  Apple-branded  and  third-party  accessories.  AirPods  are  the  Company’s  wireless  headphones  that  interact  with  Siri®. 
During 2020, the Company released AirPods Pro®. Apple Watch is the Company’s line of smart watches based on its watchOS® 
operating system. In September 2020, the Company released Apple Watch Series 6 and a new Apple Watch SE. In October 
2020, the Company announced HomePod mini™, which is expected to be available in November 2020.

Services

Advertising

The  Company’s  advertising  services  include  various  third-party  licensing  arrangements  and  the  Company’s  own  advertising 
platforms.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 1

AppleCare
The Company offers a portfolio of fee-based service and support products under the AppleCare® brand. The offerings provide 
priority  access  to  Apple  technical  support,  access  to  the  global  Apple  authorized  service  network  for  repair  and  replacement 
services,  and  in  many  cases  additional  coverage  for  instances  of  accidental  damage  and/or  theft  and  loss,  depending  on  the 
country and type of product.

Cloud Services

The Company’s cloud services store and keep customers’ content up-to-date and available across multiple Apple devices and 
Windows personal computers.

Digital Content
The Company operates various platforms, including the App Store®, that allow customers to discover and download applications 
and digital content, such as books, music, video, games and podcasts.

The  Company  also  offers  digital  content  through  subscription-based  services,  including  Apple  ArcadeSM,  a  game  subscription 
service;  Apple  Music®,  which  offers  users  a  curated  listening  experience  with  on-demand  radio  stations;  Apple  News+SM,  a 
subscription  news  and  magazine  service;  and  Apple  TV+SM,  which  offers  exclusive  original  content.  In  September  2020,  the 
Company announced Apple Fitness+SM, a personalized fitness service built for Apple Watch, which is expected to be available 
before the end of calendar 2020.

Payment Services
The Company offers payment services, including Apple Card™, a co-branded credit card, and Apple Pay®, a cashless payment 
service.

Markets and Distribution

The Company’s customers are primarily in the consumer, small and mid-sized business, education, enterprise and government 
markets.  The  Company  sells  its  products  and  resells  third-party  products  in  most  of  its  major  markets  directly  to  consumers, 
small and mid-sized businesses, and education, enterprise and government customers through its retail and online stores and its 
direct  sales  force.  The  Company  also  employs  a  variety  of  indirect  distribution  channels,  such  as  third-party  cellular  network 
carriers,  wholesalers,  retailers  and  resellers.  During 2020,  the  Company’s  net  sales  through  its  direct  and  indirect  distribution 
channels accounted for 34% and 66%, respectively, of total net sales.

No single customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales in 2020, 2019 and 2018.

Competition

The  markets  for  the  Company’s  products  and  services  are  highly  competitive,  and  are  characterized  by  aggressive  price 
competition  and  resulting  downward  pressure  on  gross  margins,  frequent  introduction  of  new  products  and  services,  short 
product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in product price and performance characteristics, rapid 
adoption of technological advancements by competitors, and price sensitivity on the part of consumers and businesses. Many of 
the Company’s competitors seek to compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures, and by emulating 
the Company’s products and infringing on its intellectual property.

The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends heavily on ensuring the continuing and timely introduction of innovative 
new products, services and technologies to the marketplace. The Company believes it is unique in that it designs and develops 
nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications and related 
services. Principal competitive factors important to the Company include price, product and service features (including security 
features),  relative  price  and  performance,  product  and  service  quality  and  reliability,  design  innovation,  a  strong  third-party 
software and accessories ecosystem, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, and corporate reputation.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 2

The Company is focused on expanding its market opportunities related to smartphones, personal computers, tablets and other 
electronic  devices  and  services.  The  Company  faces  substantial  competition  in  these  markets  from  companies  that  have 
significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, as well as established hardware, software, and service offerings 
with large customer bases. In addition, some of the Company’s competitors have broader product lines, lower-priced products 
and  a  larger  installed  base  of  active  devices.  Competition  has  been  particularly  intense  as  competitors  have  aggressively  cut 
prices  and  lowered  product  margins.  Certain  competitors  may  have  the  resources,  experience  or  cost  structures  to  provide 
products at little or no profit or even at a loss. The Company’s services compete with business models that provide content to 
users for free and use illegitimate means to obtain third-party digital content and applications. The Company expects competition 
in  these  markets  to  intensify  significantly  as  competitors  imitate  the  Company’s  product  features  and  applications  within  their 
products, or collaborate to offer integrated solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer.

Supply of Components

Although  most  components  essential  to  the  Company’s  business  are  generally  available  from  multiple  sources,  certain 
components  are  currently  obtained  from  single  or  limited  sources.  The  Company  also  competes  for  various  components  with 
other  participants  in  the  markets  for  smartphones,  personal  computers,  tablets  and  other  electronic  devices.  Therefore,  many 
components used by the Company, including those that are available from multiple sources, are at times subject to industry-wide 
shortage and significant commodity pricing fluctuations.

The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used by its competitors, and new products introduced by 
the  Company  often  utilize  custom  components  available  from  only  one  source.  When  a  component  or  product  uses  new 
technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matured or their manufacturing capacities have 
increased. The continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if suppliers decide to 
concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Company’s requirements.

The Company has entered into agreements for the supply of many components; however, there can be no guarantee that the 
Company will be able to extend or renew these agreements on similar terms, or at all.

Substantially  all  of  the  Company’s  hardware  products  are  manufactured  by  outsourcing  partners  that  are  located  primarily  in 
Asia, with some Mac computers manufactured in the U.S. and Ireland.

Research and Development

Because  the  industries  in  which  the  Company  competes  are  characterized  by  rapid  technological  advances,  the  Company’s 
ability  to  compete  successfully  depends  heavily  upon  its  ability  to  ensure  a  continual  and  timely  flow  of  competitive  products, 
services  and  technologies  to  the  marketplace.  The  Company  continues  to  develop  new  technologies  to  enhance  existing 
products  and  services,  and  to  expand  the  range  of  its  offerings  through  research  and  development  (“R&D”),  licensing  of 
intellectual property and acquisition of third-party businesses and technology.

Intellectual Property

The Company currently holds a broad collection of intellectual property rights relating to certain aspects of its hardware devices, 
accessories, software and services. This includes patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade dress and other forms of 
intellectual  property  rights  in  the  U.S.  and  various  foreign  countries.  Although  the  Company  believes  the  ownership  of  such 
intellectual property rights is an important factor in its business and that its success does depend in part on such ownership, the 
Company relies primarily on the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities of its personnel.

The Company regularly files patent applications to protect innovations arising from its research, development and design, and is 
currently pursuing thousands of patent applications around the world. Over time, the Company has accumulated a large portfolio 
of  issued  patents,  including  utility  patents,  design  patents  and  others.  The  Company  also  holds  copyrights  relating  to  certain 
aspects  of  its  products  and  services.  No  single  intellectual  property  right  is  solely  responsible  for  protecting  the  Company’s 
products. The Company believes the duration of its intellectual property rights is adequate relative to the expected lives of its 
products.

In  addition  to  Company-owned  intellectual  property,  many  of  the  Company’s  products  and  services  are  designed  to  include 
intellectual  property  owned  by  third  parties.  It  may  be  necessary  in  the  future  to  seek  or  renew  licenses  relating  to  various 
aspects  of  the  Company’s  products,  processes  and  services.  While  the  Company  has  generally  been  able  to  obtain  such 
licenses on commercially reasonable terms in the past, there is no guarantee that such licenses could be obtained in the future 
on reasonable terms or at all.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 3

Business Seasonality and Product Introductions

The Company has historically experienced higher net sales in its first quarter compared to other quarters in its fiscal year due in 
part to seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product and service introductions can significantly impact net sales, cost of 
sales  and  operating  expenses.  The  timing  of  product  introductions  can  also  impact  the  Company’s  net  sales  to  its  indirect 
distribution  channels  as  these  channels  are  filled  with  new  inventory  following  a  product  launch,  and  channel  inventory  of  an 
older product often declines as the launch of a newer product approaches. Net sales can also be affected when consumers and 
distributors anticipate a product introduction.

Employees

As of September 26, 2020, the Company had approximately 147,000 full-time equivalent employees.

Available Information

The  Company’s  Annual  Reports  on  Form  10-K,  Quarterly  Reports  on  Form  10-Q,  Current  Reports  on  Form  8-K,  and 
amendments  to  reports  filed  pursuant  to  Sections  13(a)  and  15(d)  of  the  Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934,  as  amended  (the 
“Exchange Act”), are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Such reports and other information filed by 
the  Company  with  the  SEC  are  available  free  of  charge  at  investor.apple.com/investor-relations/sec-filings/default.aspx  when 
such  reports  are  available  on  the  SEC’s  website.  The  Company  periodically  provides  other  information  for  investors  on  its 
corporate  website,  www.apple.com,  and  its  investor  relations  website,  investor.apple.com.  This  includes  press  releases  and 
other information about financial performance, information on corporate governance and details related to the Company’s annual 
meeting  of  shareholders.  The  information  contained  on  the  websites  referenced  in  this  Form  10-K  is  not  incorporated  by 
reference into this filing. Further, the Company’s references to website URLs are intended to be inactive textual references only.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 4

Item 1A.  Risk Factors

The  following  discussion  of  risk  factors  contains  forward-looking  statements.  These  risk  factors  may  be  important  to 
understanding other statements in this Form 10-K. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, 
“Management’s  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and  Results  of  Operations”  and  the  consolidated  financial 
statements and accompanying notes in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K.

The business, financial condition and operating results of the Company can be affected by a number of factors, whether currently 
known  or  unknown,  including  but  not  limited  to  those  described  below,  any  one  or  more  of  which  could,  directly  or  indirectly, 
cause  the  Company’s  actual  financial  condition  and  operating  results  to  vary  materially  from  past,  or  from  anticipated  future, 
financial  condition  and  operating  results.  Any  of  these  factors,  in  whole  or  in  part,  could  materially  and  adversely  affect  the 
Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and stock price.

Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting the Company’s financial condition and operating results, past 
financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use 
historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods.

The  Company’s  business,  results  of  operations,  financial  condition  and  stock  price  have  been  adversely  affected  and 
could in the future be materially adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.

COVID-19 has spread rapidly throughout the world, prompting governments and businesses to take unprecedented measures in 
response. Such measures have included restrictions on travel and business operations, temporary closures of businesses, and 
quarantines and shelter-in-place orders. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly curtailed global economic activity and caused 
significant volatility and disruption in global financial markets.

The  COVID-19  pandemic  and  the  measures  taken  by  many  countries  in  response  have  adversely  affected  and  could  in  the 
future materially adversely impact the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Following 
the initial outbreak of the virus, the Company experienced disruptions to its manufacturing, supply chain and logistical services 
provided  by  outsourcing  partners,  resulting  in  temporary  iPhone  supply  shortages  that  affected  sales  worldwide.  During  the 
course of the pandemic, the Company’s retail stores, as well as channel partner points of sale, have been temporarily closed at 
various times. In many cases, where stores and points of sale have reopened they are subject to operating restrictions to protect 
public health and the health and safety of employees and customers. The Company has at times required substantially all of its 
employees to work remotely.

The Company is continuing to monitor the situation and take appropriate actions in accordance with the recommendations and 
requirements of relevant authorities. The full extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company’s operational and 
financial performance is currently uncertain and will depend on many factors outside the Company’s control, including, without 
limitation, the timing, extent, trajectory and duration of the pandemic, the development and availability of effective treatments and 
vaccines, the imposition of and compliance with protective public safety measures, and the impact of the pandemic on the global 
economy  and  demand  for  consumer  products.  Additional  future  impacts  on  the  Company  may  include,  but  are  not  limited  to, 
material  adverse  effects  on:  demand  for  the  Company’s  products  and  services;  the  Company’s  supply  chain  and  sales  and 
distribution channels; the Company’s ability to execute its strategic plans; and the Company’s profitability and cost structure.

To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and 
stock price, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Global  and  regional  economic  conditions  could  materially  adversely  affect  the  Company’s  business,  results  of 
operations, financial condition and growth.

The Company has international operations with sales outside the U.S. representing a majority of the Company’s total net sales. 
In addition, a majority of the Company’s supply chain, and its manufacturing and assembly activities, are located outside the U.S. 
As a result, the Company’s operations and performance depend significantly on global and regional economic conditions.

Adverse macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, slower growth or recession, new or increased tariffs and other barriers to 
trade, changes to fiscal and monetary policy, tighter credit, higher interest rates, high unemployment and currency fluctuations 
could  materially  adversely  affect  demand  for  the  Company’s  products  and  services.  In  addition,  consumer  confidence  and 
spending  could  be  adversely  affected  in  response  to  financial  market  volatility,  negative  financial  news,  conditions  in  the  real 
estate and mortgage markets, declines in income or asset values, changes to fuel and other energy costs, labor and healthcare 
costs and other economic factors. 

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 5

In addition to an adverse impact on demand for the Company’s products, uncertainty about, or a decline in, global or regional 
economic  conditions  could  have  a  significant  impact  on  the  Company’s  suppliers,  contract  manufacturers,  logistics  providers, 
distributors, cellular network carriers and other channel partners. Potential effects include financial instability; inability to obtain 
credit to finance operations and purchases of the Company’s products; and insolvency.

A  downturn  in  the  economic  environment  could  also  lead  to  increased  credit  and  collectibility  risk  on  the  Company’s  trade 
receivables; the failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions; limitations on the Company’s ability to issue 
new  debt;  reduced  liquidity;  and  declines  in  the  fair  value  of  the  Company’s  financial  instruments.  These  and  other  economic 
factors could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and growth.

Global  markets  for  the  Company’s  products  and  services  are  highly  competitive  and  subject  to  rapid  technological 
change, and the Company may be unable to compete effectively in these markets.

The  Company’s  products  and  services  are  offered  in  highly  competitive  global  markets  characterized  by  aggressive  price 
competition  and  resulting  downward  pressure  on  gross  margins,  frequent  introduction  of  new  products  and  services,  short 
product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in product price and performance characteristics, rapid 
adoption of technological advancements by competitors, and price sensitivity on the part of consumers and businesses.

The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends heavily on ensuring the continuing and timely introduction of innovative 
new products, services and technologies to the marketplace. The Company believes it is unique in that it designs and develops 
nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications and related 
services.  As  a  result,  the  Company  must  make  significant  investments  in  R&D.  There  can  be  no  assurance  that  these 
investments will achieve expected returns, and the Company may not be able to develop and market new products and services 
successfully.

The  Company  currently  holds  a  significant  number  of  patents,  trademarks  and  copyrights  and  has  registered,  and  applied  to 
register,  numerous  patents,  trademarks  and  copyrights.  In  contrast,  many  of  the  Company’s  competitors  seek  to  compete 
primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures, and by emulating the Company’s products and infringing on 
its intellectual property. Effective intellectual property protection may not be consistently available in every country in which the 
Company operates. If the Company is unable to continue to develop and sell innovative new products with attractive margins or if 
competitors infringe on the Company’s intellectual property, the Company’s ability to maintain a competitive advantage could be 
adversely affected.

The Company has a minority market share in the global smartphone, personal computer and tablet markets. The Company faces 
substantial  competition  in  these  markets  from  companies  that  have  significant  technical,  marketing,  distribution  and  other 
resources,  as  well  as  established  hardware,  software  and  digital  content  supplier  relationships.  In  addition,  some  of  the 
Company’s  competitors  have  broader  product  lines,  lower-priced  products  and  a  larger  installed  base  of  active  devices. 
Competition  has  been  particularly  intense  as  competitors  have  aggressively  cut  prices  and  lowered  product  margins.  Certain 
competitors  may  have  the  resources,  experience  or  cost  structures  to  provide  products  at  little  or  no  profit  or  even  at  a  loss. 
Some  of  the  markets  in  which  the  Company  competes  have  from  time  to  time  experienced  little  to  no  growth  or  contracted 
overall.

Additionally, the Company faces significant competition as competitors imitate the Company’s product features and applications 
within their products or collaborate to offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. The Company also 
expects competition to intensify as competitors imitate the Company’s approach to providing components seamlessly within their 
offerings or work collaboratively to offer integrated solutions.

The  Company’s  services  also  face  substantial  competition,  including  from  companies  that  have  significant  resources  and 
experience and have established service offerings with large customer bases. The Company competes with business models 
that provide content to users for free. The Company also competes with illegitimate means to obtain third-party digital content 
and applications.

The Company’s financial condition and operating results depend substantially on the Company’s ability to continually improve its 
products and services to maintain their functional and design advantages. There can be no assurance the Company will be able 
to continue to provide products and services that compete effectively.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 6

To remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, the Company must successfully manage frequent introductions 
and transitions of products and services.

Due  to  the  highly  volatile  and  competitive  nature  of  the  industries  in  which  the  Company  competes,  the  Company  must 
continually  introduce  new  products,  services  and  technologies,  enhance  existing  products  and  services,  effectively  stimulate 
customer  demand  for  new  and  upgraded  products  and  services,  and  successfully  manage  the  transition  to  these  new  and 
upgraded  products  and  services.  The  success  of  new  product  and  service  introductions  depends  on  a  number  of  factors 
including, but not limited to, timely and successful development, market acceptance, the Company’s ability to manage the risks 
associated with new product production ramp-up issues, the availability of application software for new products, the effective 
management of purchase commitments and inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, the availability of products 
in appropriate quantities and at expected costs to meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products and services may 
have quality or other defects or deficiencies. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine in advance the ultimate effect of new 
product and service introductions and transitions.

The Company depends on the performance of carriers, wholesalers, retailers and other resellers.

The  Company  distributes  its  products  through  cellular  network  carriers,  wholesalers,  retailers  and  resellers,  many  of  whom 
distribute products from competing manufacturers. The Company also sells its products and resells third-party products in most 
of  its  major  markets  directly  to  consumers,  small  and  mid-sized  businesses,  and  education,  enterprise  and  government 
customers through its retail and online stores and its direct sales force.

Some  carriers  providing  cellular  network  service  for  iPhone  offer  financing,  installment  payment  plans  or  subsidies  for  users’ 
purchases of the device. There is no assurance that such offers will be continued at all or in the same amounts upon renewal of 
the Company’s agreements with these carriers or in agreements the Company enters into with new carriers.

The  Company  has  invested  and  will  continue  to  invest  in  programs  to  enhance  reseller  sales,  including  staffing  selected 
resellers’  stores  with  Company  employees  and  contractors,  and  improving  product  placement  displays.  These  programs  can 
require a substantial investment while not assuring return or incremental sales. The financial condition of these resellers could 
weaken, these resellers could stop distributing the Company’s products, or uncertainty regarding demand for some or all of the 
Company’s products could cause resellers to reduce their ordering and marketing of the Company’s products.

The Company is exposed to the risk of write-downs on the value of its inventory and other assets, in addition to purchase 
commitment cancellation risk.

The Company records a write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete or exceed anticipated 
demand,  or  for  which  cost  exceeds  net  realizable  value.  The  Company  also  accrues  necessary  cancellation  fee  reserves  for 
orders  of  excess  products  and  components.  The  Company  reviews  long-lived  assets,  including  capital  assets  held  at  its 
suppliers’ facilities and inventory prepayments, for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate the assets may not be 
recoverable. If the Company determines that an impairment has occurred, it records a write-down equal to the amount by which 
the  carrying  value  of  the  asset  exceeds  its  fair  value.  Although  the  Company  believes  its  inventory,  capital  assets,  inventory 
prepayments  and  other  assets  and  purchase  commitments  are  currently  recoverable,  no  assurance  can  be  given  that  the 
Company  will  not  incur  write-downs,  fees,  impairments  and  other  charges  given  the  rapid  and  unpredictable  pace  of  product 
obsolescence in the industries in which the Company competes.

The Company orders components for its products and builds inventory in advance of product announcements and shipments. 
Manufacturing purchase obligations cover the Company’s forecasted component and manufacturing requirements, typically for 
periods  up  to  150  days.  Because  the  Company’s  markets  are  volatile,  competitive  and  subject  to  rapid  technology  and  price 
changes, there is a risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and order or produce excess or insufficient amounts of components 
or products, or not fully utilize firm purchase commitments.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 7

Future  operating  results  depend  upon  the  Company’s  ability  to  obtain  components  in  sufficient  quantities  on 
commercially reasonable terms.

Because the Company currently obtains certain components from single or limited sources, the Company is subject to significant 
supply  and  pricing  risks.  Many  components,  including  those  that  are  available  from  multiple  sources,  are  at  times  subject  to 
industry-wide  shortages  and  significant  commodity  pricing  fluctuations  that  could  materially  adversely  affect  the  Company’s 
financial condition and operating results. While the Company has entered into agreements for the supply of many components, 
there  can  be  no  assurance  that  the  Company  will  be  able  to  extend  or  renew  these  agreements  on  similar  terms,  or  at  all. 
Component  suppliers  may  suffer  from  poor  financial  conditions,  which  can  lead  to  business  failure  for  the  supplier  or 
consolidation within a particular industry, further limiting the Company’s ability to obtain sufficient quantities of components on 
commercially reasonable terms. The effects of global or regional economic conditions on the Company’s suppliers, described in 
“Global  and  regional  economic  conditions  could  materially  adversely  affect  the  Company’s  business,  results  of  operations, 
financial condition and growth,” above, also could affect the Company’s ability to obtain components. Therefore, the Company 
remains  subject  to  significant  risks  of  supply  shortages  and  price  increases  that  could  materially  adversely  affect  its  financial 
condition and operating results.

The Company’s new products often utilize custom components available from only one source. When a component or product 
uses  new  technologies,  initial  capacity  constraints  may  exist  until  the  suppliers’  yields  have  matured  or  their  manufacturing 
capacities have increased. The continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, can be affected for any 
number of reasons, including if suppliers decide to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components 
customized to meet the Company’s requirements. If the Company’s supply of components for a new or existing product were 
delayed or constrained, or if an outsourcing partner delayed shipments of completed products to the Company, the Company’s 
financial  condition  and  operating  results  could  be  materially  adversely  affected.  The  Company’s  business  and  financial 
performance could also be materially adversely affected depending on the time required to obtain sufficient quantities from the 
source, or to identify and obtain sufficient quantities from an alternative source.

The  Company  depends  on  component  and  product  manufacturing  and  logistical  services  provided  by  outsourcing 
partners, many of which are located outside of the U.S.

Substantially all of the Company’s manufacturing is performed in whole or in part by outsourcing partners located primarily in 
Asia. A significant concentration of this manufacturing is currently performed by a small number of outsourcing partners, often in 
single  locations.  The  Company  has  also  outsourced  much  of  its  transportation  and  logistics  management.  While  these 
arrangements can lower operating costs, they also reduce the Company’s direct control over production and distribution. Such 
diminished control may have an adverse effect on the quality or quantity of products or services, or the Company’s flexibility to 
respond to changing conditions. Although arrangements with these partners may contain provisions for product defect expense 
reimbursement,  the  Company  generally  remains  responsible  to  the  consumer  for  warranty  and  out-of-warranty  service  in  the 
event of product defects and could experience an unanticipated product defect liability. While the Company relies on its partners 
to adhere to its supplier code of conduct, material violations of the supplier code of conduct could occur.

The  Company  relies  on  single-source  outsourcing  partners  in  the  U.S.,  Asia  and  Europe  to  supply  and  manufacture  many 
components,  and  on  outsourcing  partners  primarily  located  in  Asia,  for  final  assembly  of  substantially  all  of  the  Company’s 
hardware  products.  Any  failure  of  these  partners  to  perform  can  have  a  negative  impact  on  the  Company’s  cost  or  supply  of 
components  or  finished  goods.  In  addition,  manufacturing  or  logistics  in  these  locations  or  transit  to  final  destinations  can  be 
disrupted for a variety of reasons including, but not limited to, natural and man-made disasters, information technology system 
failures,  commercial  disputes,  military  actions,  economic,  business,  labor,  environmental,  public  health  or  political  issues,  or 
international trade disputes.

The Company has invested in manufacturing process equipment, much of which is held at certain of its outsourcing partners, 
and has made prepayments to certain of its suppliers associated with long-term supply agreements. While these arrangements 
help ensure the supply of components and finished goods, if these outsourcing partners or suppliers experience severe financial 
problems or other disruptions in their business, such continued supply can be reduced or terminated, and the recoverability of 
manufacturing process equipment or prepayments can be negatively impacted.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 8

The Company’s products and services may be affected from time to time by design and manufacturing defects that could 
materially adversely affect the Company’s business and result in harm to the Company’s reputation.

The Company offers complex hardware and software products and services that can be affected by design and manufacturing 
defects. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such as those offered by the Company, often have issues 
that  can  unexpectedly  interfere  with  the  intended  operation  of  hardware  or  software  products.  Defects  can  also  exist  in 
components and products the Company purchases from third parties. Component defects could make the Company’s products 
unsafe and create a risk of environmental or property damage and personal injury. These risks may increase as the Company’s 
products  are  introduced  into  specialized  applications,  including  healthcare.  In  addition,  the  Company’s  service  offerings  may 
have quality issues and from time to time experience outages, service slowdowns or errors. As a result, the Company’s services 
may not perform as anticipated and may not meet customer expectations. There can be no assurance the Company will be able 
to  detect  and  fix  all  issues  and  defects  in  the  hardware,  software  and  services  it  offers.  Failure  to  do  so  could  result  in 
widespread technical and performance issues affecting the Company’s products and services. In addition, the Company can be 
exposed  to  product  liability  claims,  recalls,  product  replacements  or  modifications,  write-offs  of  inventory,  property,  plant  and 
equipment, and/or intangible assets, and significant warranty and other expenses, including litigation costs and regulatory fines. 
Quality problems can also adversely affect the experience for users of the Company’s products and services, and result in harm 
to  the  Company’s  reputation,  loss  of  competitive  advantage,  poor  market  acceptance,  reduced  demand  for  products  and 
services, delay in new product and service introductions and lost sales.

The  Company  relies  on  access  to  third-party  digital  content,  which  may  not  be  available  to  the  Company  on 
commercially reasonable terms or at all.

The  Company  contracts  with  numerous  third  parties  to  offer  their  digital  content  to  customers.  This  includes  the  right  to  sell 
currently available content. The licensing or other distribution arrangements with these third parties are for relatively short terms 
and do not guarantee the continuation or renewal of these arrangements on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Some third-
party  content  providers  and  distributors  currently  or  in  the  future  may  offer  competing  products  and  services,  and  can  take 
actions to make it more difficult or impossible for the Company to license or otherwise distribute their content in the future. Other 
content owners, providers or distributors may seek to limit the Company’s access to, or increase the cost of, such content. The 
Company may be unable to continue to offer a wide variety of content at commercially reasonable prices with acceptable usage 
rules, or continue to expand its geographic reach. Failure to obtain the right to make third-party digital content available, or to 
make  such  content  available  on  commercially  reasonable  terms,  could  have  a  material  adverse  impact  on  the  Company’s 
financial condition and operating results.

Some third-party digital content providers require the Company to provide digital rights management and other security solutions. 
If requirements change, the Company may have to develop or license new technology to provide these solutions. There is no 
assurance  the  Company  will  be  able  to  develop  or  license  such  solutions  at  a  reasonable  cost  and  in  a  timely  manner.  In 
addition, certain countries have passed or may propose and adopt legislation that would force the Company to license its digital 
rights  management,  which  could  lessen  the  protection  of  content  and  subject  it  to  piracy  and  also  could  negatively  affect 
arrangements with the Company’s content providers.

The Company’s future performance depends in part on support from third-party software developers.

The Company believes decisions by customers to purchase its hardware products depend in part on the availability of third-party 
software  applications  and  services.  There  is  no  assurance  that  third-party  developers  will  continue  to  develop  and  maintain 
software  applications  and  services  for  the  Company’s  products.  If  third-party  software  applications  and  services  cease  to  be 
developed and maintained for the Company’s products, customers may choose not to buy the Company’s products.

The Company believes the availability of third-party software applications and services for its products depends in part on the 
developers’ perception and analysis of the relative benefits of developing, maintaining and upgrading such software and services 
for the Company’s products compared to competitors’ platforms, such as Android for smartphones and tablets and Windows for 
personal computers. This analysis may be based on factors such as the market position of the Company and its products, the 
anticipated  revenue  that  may  be  generated,  expected  future  growth  of  product  sales,  and  the  costs  of  developing  such 
applications and services.

The Company’s minority market share in the global smartphone, personal computer and tablet markets could make developers 
less  inclined  to  develop  or  upgrade  software  for  the  Company’s  products  and  more  inclined  to  devote  their  resources  to 
developing and upgrading software for competitors’ products with larger market share. If developers focus their efforts on these 
competing platforms, the availability and quality of applications for the Company’s devices may suffer.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 9

The  Company  relies  on  the  continued  availability  and  development  of  compelling  and  innovative  software  applications  for  its 
products.  The  Company’s  products  and  operating  systems  are  subject  to  rapid  technological  change,  and  if  third-party 
developers are unable to or choose not to keep up with this pace of change, third-party applications might not take advantage of 
these changes to deliver improved customer experiences or might not operate correctly and may result in dissatisfied customers.

The  Company  sells  and  delivers  third-party  applications  for  its  products  through  the  App  Store.  For  the  vast  majority  of 
applications, developers keep all of the revenue they generate on the App Store. The Company only retains a commission from 
sales of applications through its platforms and in situations where a developer offers purchases for digital features, services, or 
goods  within  an  application.  If  developers  reduce  their  use  of  the  Company’s  platforms,  including  in-app  purchases,  then  the 
volume of sales, and the commission that the Company earns on those sales, would decrease. If the rate of the commission that 
the  Company  retains  on  such  sales  is  reduced,  or  if  it  is  otherwise  narrowed  in  scope  or  eliminated,  the  Company’s  financial 
condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.

The  Company  relies  on  access  to  third-party  intellectual  property,  which  may  not  be  available  to  the  Company  on 
commercially reasonable terms or at all.

Many  of  the  Company’s  products  and  services  are  designed  to  include  intellectual  property  owned  by  third  parties,  which 
requires licenses from those third parties. In addition, because of technological changes in the industries in which the Company 
currently  competes  or  in  the  future  may  compete,  current  extensive  patent  coverage  and  the  rapid  rate  of  issuance  of  new 
patents, the Company’s products and services may unknowingly infringe existing patents or intellectual property rights of others. 
From time to time, the Company has been notified that it may be infringing certain patents or other intellectual property rights of 
third parties. Based on experience and industry practice, the Company believes licenses to such third-party intellectual property 
can generally be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. There is, however, no assurance that the necessary licenses can 
be obtained on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Failure to obtain the right to use third-party intellectual property, or to 
use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms, could preclude the Company from selling certain products or 
services, or otherwise have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results.

The  Company’s  financial  condition  and  operating  results  could  be  adversely  impacted  by  unfavorable  results  of  legal 
proceedings or government investigations.

The  Company  is  subject  to  various  claims,  legal  proceedings  and  government  investigations  that  have  arisen  in  the  ordinary 
course  of  business  and  have  not  yet  been  fully  resolved,  and  new  matters  may  arise  in  the  future.  In  addition,  agreements 
entered  into  by  the  Company  sometimes  include  indemnification  provisions  which  can  subject  the  Company  to  costs  and 
damages in the event of a claim against an indemnified third party. The number of claims, legal proceedings and government 
investigations involving the Company, and the alleged magnitude of such claims, proceedings and government investigations, 
has generally increased over time and may continue to increase.

The Company has faced and continues to face a significant number of patent claims relating to its cellular-enabled products, and 
new claims may arise in the future. For example, technology and other patent-holding companies frequently assert their patents 
and  seek  royalties  and  often  enter  into  litigation  based  on  allegations  of  patent  infringement  or  other  violations  of  intellectual 
property  rights.  The  Company  is  vigorously  defending  infringement  actions  in  courts  in  several  U.S.  jurisdictions,  as  well  as 
internationally in various countries. The plaintiffs in these actions frequently seek injunctions and substantial damages.

Regardless  of  the  merit  of  particular  claims,  defending  against  litigation  or  responding  to  government  investigations  can  be 
expensive,  time-consuming,  disruptive  to  the  Company’s  operations  and  distracting  to  management.  In  recognition  of  these 
considerations, the Company may enter into agreements or other arrangements to settle litigation and resolve such challenges. 
No assurance can be given that such agreements can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. These 
agreements may also significantly increase the Company’s cost of sales and operating expenses.

Except  as  described  in  Part  II,  Item  8  of  this  Form  10-K  in  the  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in  Note  10, 
“Commitments and Contingencies” under the heading “Contingencies,” in the opinion of management, there was not at least a 
reasonable  possibility  the  Company  may  have  incurred  a  material  loss,  or  a  material  loss  greater  than  a  recorded  accrual, 
concerning  loss  contingencies  for  asserted  legal  and  other  claims,  including  matters  related  to  infringement  of  intellectual 
property rights.

The outcome of litigation or government investigations is inherently uncertain. If one or more legal matters were resolved against 
the Company or an indemnified third party in a reporting period for amounts above management’s expectations, the Company’s 
financial  condition  and  operating  results  for  that  reporting  period  could  be  materially  adversely  affected.  Further,  such  an 
outcome  could  result  in  significant  compensatory,  punitive  or  trebled  monetary  damages,  disgorgement  of  revenue  or  profits, 
remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief against the Company, and could require the Company to change its business 
practices or limit the Company’s ability to offer certain products and services, all of which could materially adversely affect its 
financial condition and operating results.

While the Company maintains insurance coverage for certain types of claims, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to 
cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 10

The  Company  is  subject  to  complex  and  changing  laws  and  regulations  worldwide,  which  exposes  the  Company  to 
potential liabilities, increased costs and other adverse effects on the Company’s business.

The  Company’s  global  operations  are  subject  to  complex  and  changing  laws  and  regulations  on  subjects  including,  but  not 
limited to: antitrust; privacy, data security and data localization; consumer protection; advertising, sales, billing and e-commerce; 
product  liability;  intellectual  property  ownership  and  infringement;  digital  platforms;  Internet,  telecommunications,  and  mobile 
communications; media, television, film and digital content; availability of third-party software applications and services; labor and 
employment; anti-corruption; import, export and trade; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; anti–money 
laundering; foreign ownership and investment; tax; and environmental, health and safety.

Compliance with these laws and regulations may be onerous and expensive, increasing the cost of conducting the Company’s 
global operations. Changes to laws and regulations can adversely affect the Company’s business by increasing the Company’s 
costs, limiting the Company’s ability to offer a product or service to customers, requiring changes to the Company’s supply chain 
and business practices or otherwise making the Company’s products and services less attractive to customers. The Company 
has implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be 
no assurance that the Company’s employees, contractors or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or the Company’s 
policies and procedures. If the Company is found to have violated laws and regulations, it could materially adversely affect the 
Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating results.

The  technology  industry,  including,  in  some  instances,  the  Company,  is  subject  to  intense  media,  political  and  regulatory 
scrutiny, which exposes the Company to government investigations, legal actions and penalties. For example, the Company is 
subject  to  antitrust  investigations  in  various  jurisdictions  around  the  world,  which  can  result  in  legal  proceedings  and  claims 
against the Company that could, individually or in the aggregate, have a materially adverse impact on the Company’s financial 
condition and operating results. In addition, if enacted, legislative and other proposals to further regulate technology companies 
could result in changes to the Company’s business, including requiring the Company to modify its product and service offerings, 
limiting  the  Company’s  ability  to  invest  in  strategic  acquisitions,  or  affecting  the  Company’s  business  relationships  with  other 
technology companies, and could have a materially adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
Further, the Company’s business partners are or may become subject to litigation that, if resolved against them, could affect the 
Company’s  relationships  with  these  business  partners  and  have  a  materially  adverse  impact  on  the  Company’s  financial 
condition  and  operating  results.  There  can  be  no  assurance  that  the  Company’s  business  will  not  be  materially  adversely 
affected, individually or in the aggregate, by the outcomes of such investigations, litigation or changes to laws and regulations in 
the future.

The  Company’s  retail  stores  have  required  and  will  continue  to  require  a  substantial  investment  and  commitment  of 
resources and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties.

The  Company’s  retail  stores  have  required  substantial  investment  in  equipment  and  leasehold  improvements,  information 
systems, inventory and personnel. The Company also has entered into substantial lease commitments for retail space. Certain 
stores  have  been  designed  and  built  to  serve  as  high-profile  venues  to  promote  brand  awareness.  Because  of  their  unique 
design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than the Company’s more typical retail 
stores.  Due  to  the  high  cost  structure  associated  with  the  Company’s  retail  stores,  a  decline  in  sales  or  the  closure  or  poor 
performance of an individual store or multiple stores, including as a result of protective public safety measures in response to the 
COVID-19 pandemic, could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements and 
severance costs.

The Company’s retail operations are subject to many factors that pose risks and uncertainties and could adversely impact the 
Company’s  financial  condition  and  operating  results,  including  macro-economic  factors  that  could  have  an  adverse  effect  on 
general retail activity. Other factors include, but are not limited to, the Company’s ability to: manage costs associated with retail 
store construction and operation; manage relationships with existing retail partners; manage costs associated with fluctuations in 
the value of retail inventory; and obtain and renew leases in quality retail locations at a reasonable cost.

Investment in new business strategies and acquisitions could disrupt the Company’s ongoing business, present risks not 
originally contemplated and adversely affect the Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating results.

The  Company  has  invested,  and  in  the  future  may  invest,  in  new  business  strategies  or  acquisitions.  Such  endeavors  may 
involve  significant  risks  and  uncertainties,  including  distraction  of  management  from  current  operations,  greater-than-expected 
liabilities  and  expenses,  economic,  political,  legal  and  regulatory  challenges  associated  with  operating  in  new  businesses, 
regions or countries, inadequate return on capital, potential impairment of tangible and intangible assets, and significant write-
offs.  These  new  ventures  are  inherently  risky  and  may  not  be  successful.  The  failure  of  any  significant  investment  could 
adversely affect the Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating results.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 11

The  Company’s  business  and  reputation  may  be  impacted  by  information  technology  system  failures  or  network 
disruptions.

The  Company  is  exposed  to  information  technology  system  failures  or  network  disruptions  caused  by  natural  disasters, 
accidents,  power  disruptions,  telecommunications  failures,  acts  of  terrorism  or  war,  computer  viruses,  physical  or  electronic 
break-ins, or other events or disruptions. System redundancy and other continuity measures may be ineffective or inadequate, 
and the Company’s business continuity and disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures or 
disruptions can adversely impact the Company’s business by, among other things, preventing access to the Company’s online 
services, interfering with customer transactions or impeding the manufacturing and shipping of the Company’s products. These 
events could materially adversely affect the Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating results.

There may be losses or unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information, including personally identifiable 
information, that could subject the Company to significant reputational, financial, legal and operational consequences.

The  Company’s  business  requires  it  to  use  and  store  confidential  information  including,  among  other  things,  personally 
identifiable  information  (“PII”)  with  respect  to  the  Company’s  customers  and  employees.  The  Company  devotes  significant 
resources to network and data security, including through the use of encryption and other security measures intended to protect 
its systems and data. But these measures cannot provide absolute security, and losses or unauthorized access to or releases of 
confidential information occur and could materially adversely affect the Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating 
results.

The  Company’s  business  also  requires  it  to  share  confidential  information  with  suppliers  and  other  third  parties.  Although  the 
Company takes steps to secure confidential information that is provided to third parties, such measures are not always effective 
and  losses  or  unauthorized  access  to  or  releases  of  confidential  information  occur  and  could  materially  adversely  affect  the 
Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating results.

For  example,  the  Company  may  experience  a  security  breach  impacting  the  Company’s  information  technology  systems  that 
compromises the confidentiality, integrity or availability of confidential information. Such an incident could, among other things, 
impair  the  Company’s  ability  to  attract  and  retain  customers  for  its  products  and  services,  impact  the  Company’s  stock  price, 
materially damage supplier relationships, and expose the Company to litigation or government investigations, which could result 
in penalties, fines or judgments against the Company.

Although malicious attacks perpetrated to gain access to confidential information, including PII, affect many companies across 
various industries, the Company is at a relatively greater risk of being targeted because of its high profile and the value of the 
confidential information it creates, owns, manages, stores and processes.

The  Company  has  implemented  systems  and  processes  intended  to  secure  its  information  technology  systems  and  prevent 
unauthorized access to or loss of sensitive data, including through the use of encryption and authentication technologies. As with 
all companies, these security measures may not be sufficient for all eventualities and may be vulnerable to hacking, employee 
error,  malfeasance,  system  error,  faulty  password  management  or  other  irregularities.  For  example,  third  parties  fraudulently 
induce  employees  or  customers  into  disclosing  user  names,  passwords  or  other  sensitive  information,  which  may,  in  turn,  be 
used  to  access  the  Company’s  information  technology  systems.  To  help  protect  customers  and  the  Company,  the  Company 
monitors its services and systems for unusual activity and may freeze accounts under suspicious circumstances, which, among 
other  things,  may  result  in  the  delay  or  loss  of  customer  orders  or  impede  customer  access  to  the  Company’s  products  and 
services.

In  addition  to  the  risks  relating  to  general  confidential  information  described  above,  the  Company  is  also  subject  to  specific 
obligations  relating  to  health  data  and  payment  card  data.  Health  data  is  subject  to  additional  privacy,  security  and  breach 
notification  requirements,  and  the  Company  can  be  subject  to  audit  by  governmental  authorities  regarding  the  Company’s 
compliance with these obligations. If the Company fails to adequately comply with these rules and requirements, or if health data 
is handled in a manner not permitted by law or under the Company’s agreements with healthcare institutions, the Company could 
be subject to litigation or government investigations, may be liable for associated investigatory expenses, and could also incur 
significant fees or fines.

Under payment card rules and obligations, if cardholder information is potentially compromised, the Company could be liable for 
associated  investigatory  expenses  and  could  also  incur  significant  fees  or  fines  if  the  Company  fails  to  follow  payment  card 
industry data security standards. The Company could also experience a significant increase in payment card transaction costs or 
lose the ability to process payment cards if it fails to follow payment card industry data security standards, which would materially 
adversely affect the Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating results.

While  the  Company  maintains  insurance  coverage  that  is  intended  to  address  certain  aspects  of  data  security  risks,  such 
insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 12

The  Company’s  business  is  subject  to  a  variety  of  U.S.  and  international  laws,  rules,  policies  and  other  obligations 
regarding data protection.

The Company is subject to federal, state and international laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of 
PII.  In  many  cases,  these  laws  apply  not  only  to  third-party  transactions,  but  also  may  restrict  transfers  of  PII  among  the 
Company  and  its  international  subsidiaries.  Several  jurisdictions  have  passed  laws  in  this  area,  and  other  jurisdictions  are 
considering  imposing  additional  restrictions.  These  laws  continue  to  develop  and  may  be  inconsistent  from  jurisdiction  to 
jurisdiction.  Complying  with  emerging  and  changing  international  requirements  may  cause  the  Company  to  incur  substantial 
costs  or  require  the  Company  to  change  its  business  practices.  Noncompliance  could  result  in  significant  penalties  or  legal 
liability.

The  Company  makes  statements  about  its  use  and  disclosure  of  PII  through  its  privacy  policy,  information  provided  on  its 
website and press statements. Any failure by the Company to comply with these public statements or with other federal, state or 
international  privacy-related  or  data  protection  laws  and  regulations  could  result  in  proceedings  against  the  Company  by 
governmental  entities  or  others.  In  addition  to  reputational  impacts,  penalties  could  include  ongoing  audit  requirements  and 
significant legal liability.

The Company’s success depends largely on the continued service and availability of key personnel.

Much of the Company’s future success depends on the continued availability and service of key personnel, including its Chief 
Executive Officer, executive team and other highly skilled employees. Experienced personnel in the technology industry are in 
high demand and competition for their talents is intense, especially in Silicon Valley, where most of the Company’s key personnel 
are located.

The  Company’s  business  can  be  impacted  by  political  events,  international  trade  disputes,  war,  terrorism,  natural 
disasters, public health issues, industrial accidents and other business interruptions.

Political events, international trade disputes, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues, industrial accidents and other 
business interruptions could harm or disrupt international commerce and the global economy, and could have a material adverse 
effect  on  the  Company  and  its  customers,  suppliers,  contract  manufacturers,  logistics  providers,  distributors,  cellular  network 
carriers and other channel partners.

The  Company  has  a  large,  global  business,  and  the  Company  believes  that  it  generally  benefits  from  growth  in  international 
trade.  International  trade  disputes  can  result  in  tariffs,  sanctions,  and  other  measures  that  restrict  international  trade  and  can 
adversely affect the Company’s business. For example, tensions between the U.S. and China have led to a series of tariffs being 
imposed by the U.S. on imports from China mainland, as well as other business restrictions. Tariffs may increase the cost of the 
Company’s products and the components and raw materials that go into making them. These increased costs adversely impact 
the gross margin that the Company earns on its products. Tariffs can also make the Company’s products more expensive for 
customers,  which  could  make  the  Company’s  products  less  competitive  and  reduce  consumer  demand.  Countries  may  also 
adopt  other  measures,  such  as  controls  on  imports  or  exports  of  goods,  technology  or  data,  that  could  adversely  impact  the 
Company’s operations and supply chain and limit the Company’s ability to offer its products and services as designed. These 
measures can require the Company to take various actions, including change suppliers, restructure business relationships, and 
stop offering third-party applications on its platforms. Changing the Company’s operations in accordance with new or changed 
trade restrictions may be expensive, time-consuming, disruptive to the Company’s operations and distracting to management. 
Trade restrictions may be announced with little or no advance notice and the Company may not be able to effectively mitigate all 
adverse impacts from such measures. Political uncertainty surrounding international trade disputes could also have a negative 
effect on consumer confidence and spending, which could adversely affect the Company’s business.

Many of the Company’s operations and facilities, as well as critical business operations of the Company’s suppliers and contract 
manufacturers,  are  in  locations  that  are  prone  to  earthquakes  and  other  natural  disasters.  In  addition,  such  operations  and 
facilities  are  subject  to  the  risk  of  interruption  by  fire,  power  shortages,  nuclear  power  plant  accidents  and  other  industrial 
accidents,  terrorist  attacks  and  other  hostile  acts,  labor  disputes,  public  health  issues,  including  pandemics  such  as  the 
COVID-19  pandemic,  and  other  events  beyond  the  Company’s  control.  Global  climate  change  could  result  in  certain  types  of 
natural disasters occurring more frequently or with more intense effects. Such events could make it difficult or impossible for the 
Company to manufacture and deliver products to its customers, create delays and inefficiencies in the Company’s supply and 
manufacturing chain, and result in slowdowns and outages to the Company’s service offerings. Following an interruption to its 
business, the Company could require substantial recovery time, experience significant expenditures to resume operations, and 
lose significant sales. Because the Company relies on single or limited sources for the supply and manufacture of many critical 
components, a business interruption affecting such sources would exacerbate any negative consequences to the Company.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 13

The Company’s operations are also subject to the risks of industrial accidents at its suppliers and contract manufacturers. While 
the Company’s suppliers are required to maintain safe working environments and operations, an industrial accident could occur 
and  could  result  in  disruption  to  the  Company’s  business  and  harm  to  the  Company’s  reputation.  Major  public  health  issues, 
including  pandemics  such  as  the  COVID-19  pandemic,  have  adversely  affected,  and  could  in  the  future  adversely  affect,  the 
Company  due  to  their  impact  on  the  global  economy  and  demand  for  consumer  products;  the  imposition  of  protective  public 
safety measures, such as stringent employee travel restrictions and limitations on freight services and the movement of products 
between regions; and disruptions in the Company’s supply chain and sales and distribution channels, resulting in interruptions of 
the supply of current products and delays in production ramps of new products.

While the Company maintains insurance coverage for certain types of losses, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to 
cover all losses that may arise.

The Company expects its quarterly net sales and operating results to fluctuate.

The Company’s profit margins vary across its products, services, geographic segments and distribution channels. For example, 
the gross margins on the Company’s products and services vary significantly and can change over time. The Company’s gross 
margins  are  subject  to  volatility  and  downward  pressure  due  to  a  variety  of  factors,  including:  continued  industry-wide  global 
product  pricing  pressures  and  product  pricing  actions  that  the  Company  may  take  in  response  to  such  pressures;  increased 
competition; the Company’s ability to effectively stimulate demand for certain of its products and services; compressed product 
life  cycles;  potential  increases  in  the  cost  of  components,  outside  manufacturing  services,  and  developing,  acquiring  and 
delivering content for the Company’s services; the Company’s ability to manage product quality and warranty costs effectively; 
shifts in the mix of products and services, or in the geographic, currency or channel mix; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; 
and the introduction of new products or services, including new products or services with higher cost structures. These and other 
factors could have a materially adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results.

The Company has historically experienced higher net sales in its first quarter compared to other quarters in its fiscal year due in 
part to seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product and service introductions can significantly impact net sales, cost of 
sales and operating expenses. Further, the Company generates a significant portion of its net sales from a single product and a 
decline  in  demand  for  that  product  could  significantly  impact  quarterly  net  sales.  The  Company  could  also  be  subject  to 
unexpected  developments,  such  as  lower-than-anticipated  demand  for  the  Company’s  products  or  services,  issues  with  new 
product  or  service  introductions,  information  technology  system  failures  or  network  disruptions,  or  failure  of  one  of  the 
Company’s logistics, components supply, or manufacturing partners.

The Company’s stock price is subject to volatility.

The  Company’s  stock  price  has  experienced  substantial  price  volatility  in  the  past  and  may  continue  to  do  so  in  the  future. 
Additionally, the Company, the technology industry and the stock market as a whole have experienced extreme stock price and 
volume  fluctuations  that  have  affected  stock  prices  in  ways  that  may  have  been  unrelated  to  these  companies’  operating 
performance. Price volatility over a given period may cause the average price at which the Company repurchases its stock to 
exceed  the  stock’s  price  at  a  given  point  in  time.  The  Company  believes  its  stock  price  should  reflect  expectations  of  future 
growth and profitability. The Company also believes its stock price should reflect expectations that its cash dividend will continue 
at current levels or grow, and that its current share repurchase program will be fully consummated. Future dividends are subject 
to  declaration  by  the  Company’s  Board  of  Directors,  and  the  Company’s  share  repurchase  program  does  not  obligate  it  to 
acquire any specific number of shares. If the Company fails to meet expectations related to future growth, profitability, dividends, 
share repurchases or other market expectations, its stock price may decline significantly, which could have a material adverse 
impact on investor confidence and employee retention.

The Company’s financial performance is subject to risks associated with changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative 
to local currencies.

The  Company’s  primary  exposure  to  movements  in  foreign  currency  exchange  rates  relates  to  non–U.S.  dollar–denominated 
sales, cost of sales and operating expenses worldwide. Gross margins on the Company’s products in foreign countries and on 
products  that  include  components  obtained  from  foreign  suppliers  could  be  materially  adversely  affected  by  foreign  currency 
exchange rate fluctuations.

The weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar adversely affects the U.S. dollar value of the Company’s foreign 
currency–denominated sales and earnings, and generally leads the Company to raise international pricing, potentially reducing 
demand for the Company’s products. In some circumstances, for competitive or other reasons, the Company may decide not to 
raise international pricing to offset the U.S. dollar’s strengthening, which would adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of the gross 
margins the Company earns on foreign currency–denominated sales.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 14

Conversely, a strengthening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, while generally beneficial to the Company’s foreign 
currency–denominated  sales  and  earnings,  could  cause  the  Company  to  reduce  international  pricing  and  incur  losses  on  its 
foreign  currency  derivative  instruments,  thereby  limiting  the  benefit.  Additionally,  strengthening  of  foreign  currencies  may 
increase the Company’s cost of product components denominated in those currencies, thus adversely affecting gross margins.

The Company uses derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forward and option contracts, to hedge certain exposures to 
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not be effective to offset any, or more 
than  a  portion,  of  the  adverse  financial  effects  of  unfavorable  movements  in  foreign  exchange  rates  over  the  limited  time  the 
hedges are in place.

The Company is exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the values of its investment portfolio.

The Company’s investments can be negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration, financial results, market and economic 
conditions,  political  risk,  sovereign  risk,  interest  rate  fluctuations  or  other  factors.  As  a  result,  the  value  and  liquidity  of  the 
Company’s  cash,  cash  equivalents,  and  marketable  and  non-marketable  securities  may  fluctuate  substantially.  Therefore, 
although the Company has not realized any significant losses on its cash, cash equivalents, and marketable and non-marketable 
securities,  future  fluctuations  in  their  value  could  result  in  significant  losses  and  could  have  a  material  adverse  impact  on  the 
Company’s financial condition and operating results.

The Company is exposed to credit risk on its trade accounts receivable, vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments 
related to long-term supply agreements, and this risk is heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen.
The  Company  distributes  its  products  through  third-party  cellular  network  carriers,  wholesalers,  retailers  and  resellers.  The 
Company  also  sells  its  products  directly  to  small  and  mid-sized  businesses  and  education,  enterprise  and  government 
customers. A substantial majority of the Company’s outstanding trade receivables are not covered by collateral, third-party bank 
support  or  financing  arrangements,  or  credit  insurance,  and  a  significant  portion  of  the  Company’s  trade  receivables  can  be 
concentrated  within  cellular  network  carriers  or  other  resellers.  The  Company’s  exposure  to  credit  and  collectibility  risk  on  its 
trade receivables is higher in certain international markets and its ability to mitigate such risks may be limited. The Company also 
has unsecured vendor non-trade receivables resulting from purchases of components by outsourcing partners and other vendors 
that manufacture sub-assemblies or assemble final products for the Company. In addition, the Company has made prepayments 
associated  with  long-term  supply  agreements  to  secure  supply  of  inventory  components.  As  of  September  26,  2020,  the 
Company’s vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related to long-term supply agreements were concentrated among a 
few individual vendors located primarily in Asia. While the Company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk 
on its trade and vendor non-trade receivables, as well as long-term prepayments, there can be no assurance such procedures 
will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses.

The Company could be subject to changes in its tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation or 
exposure to additional tax liabilities.

The  Company  is  subject  to  taxes  in  the  U.S.  and  numerous  foreign  jurisdictions,  including  Ireland,  where  a  number  of  the 
Company’s subsidiaries are organized. Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject 
to significant change. The Company’s effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with 
differing  statutory  tax  rates,  changes  in  the  valuation  of  deferred  tax  assets  and  liabilities,  the  introduction  of  new  taxes,  or 
changes in tax laws or their interpretation, including in the U.S. and Ireland.

The Company is also subject to the examination of its tax returns and other tax matters by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service 
and  other  tax  authorities  and  governmental  bodies.  The  Company  regularly  assesses  the  likelihood  of  an  adverse  outcome 
resulting  from  these  examinations  to  determine  the  adequacy  of  its  provision  for  taxes.  There  can  be  no  assurance  as  to  the 
outcome of these examinations. If the Company’s effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the U.S. or Ireland, or if the 
ultimate determination of the Company’s taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, the Company’s 
financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.

Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2. 

Properties

The Company’s headquarters are located in Cupertino, California. As of September 26, 2020, the Company owned or leased 
facilities and land for corporate functions, R&D, data centers, retail and other purposes at locations throughout the U.S. and in 
various  places  outside  the  U.S.  The  Company  believes  its  existing  facilities  and  equipment,  which  are  used  by  all  reportable 
segments, are in good operating condition and are suitable for the conduct of its business.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 15

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings

The Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims that have not been fully resolved and that have arisen in the ordinary 
course of business. The Company’s material legal proceedings are described in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 10, “Commitments and Contingencies” under the heading “Contingencies.”

The outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain. If one or more legal matters were resolved against the Company in a reporting 
period for amounts above management’s expectations, the Company’s financial condition and operating results for that reporting 
period could be materially adversely affected. The Company settled certain matters during the fourth quarter of 2020 that did not 
individually or in the aggregate have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition or operating results.

Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures

Not applicable.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 16

PART II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity 

Securities

The Company’s common stock is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC under the symbol AAPL.

Common Stock Split

On August 28, 2020, the Company effected a four-for-one stock split to shareholders of record as of August 24, 2020. All share, 
restricted stock unit (“RSU”) and per share or per RSU information has been retroactively adjusted to reflect the stock split.

Holders

As of October 16, 2020, there were 22,797 shareholders of record.

Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers

Share  repurchase  activity  during  the  three  months  ended  September  26,  2020  was  as  follows  (in  millions,  except  number  of 
shares, which are reflected in thousands, and per share amounts):

Periods
June 28, 2020 to August 1, 2020:

Open market and privately negotiated purchases

August 2, 2020 to August 29, 2020:

May 2020 ASR
Open market and privately negotiated purchases

August 30, 2020 to September 26, 2020:

Open market and privately negotiated purchases

Total

Total Number

of Shares 
Purchased

Average 

Price

Paid Per 

Share

Total Number 

of Shares

Purchased as 
Part of Publicly

Announced 

Plans or 
Programs

 

 
 

 
 

67,990 

$ 

94.68 

3,115 
40,004 

(2)

$  115.99 

60,725 
171,834 

$  114.00 

 

 
 

 

67,990 

3,115 
40,004 

60,725 

Approximate 
Dollar Value of

Shares That May 
Yet Be Purchased
Under the Plans 
or Programs (1)

$ 

56,353 

(1) As of September 26, 2020, the Company was authorized to purchase up to $225 billion of the Company’s common stock 
under a share repurchase program announced on April 30, 2020, of which $168.6 billion had been utilized. The remaining 
$56.4 billion in the table represents the amount available to repurchase shares under the authorized repurchase program as 
of September 26, 2020. The Company’s share repurchase program does not obligate it to acquire any specific number of 
shares. Under this program, shares may be repurchased in privately negotiated and/or open market transactions, including 
under plans complying with Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act.

(2)

In May 2020, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase arrangement (“ASR”) to purchase up to $6.0 billion 
of the Company’s common stock. In August 2020, the purchase period for this ASR ended and an additional 3 million shares 
were  delivered  and  retired.  In  total,  64  million  shares  were  delivered  under  this  ASR  at  an  average  repurchase  price  of 
$94.14.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 17

Company Stock Performance

The following graph shows a comparison of cumulative total shareholder return, calculated on a dividend-reinvested basis, for 
the  Company,  the  S&P  500  Index,  the  S&P  Information  Technology  Index  and  the  Dow  Jones  U.S.  Technology  Supersector 
Index for the five years ended September 26, 2020. The graph assumes $100 was invested in each of the Company’s common 
stock, the S&P 500 Index, the S&P Information Technology Index and the Dow Jones U.S. Technology Supersector Index as of 
the  market  close  on September  25,  2015.  Note  that  past  stock  price  performance  is  not  necessarily  indicative  of  future  stock 
price performance.

*

$100 invested on September 25, 2015 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Data points are the last day of 
each fiscal year for the Company’s common stock and September 30th for indexes.
Copyright© 2020 Standard & Poor’s, a division of S&P Global. All rights reserved.
Copyright© 2020 S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC, a division of S&P Global. All rights reserved.

September 

2015

September 

2016

September 

2017

September 

2018

September 

2019

September 

2020

Apple Inc.
S&P 500 Index
S&P Information Technology Index
Dow Jones U.S. Technology Supersector Index

$ 
$ 
$ 
$ 

100  $ 
100  $ 
100  $ 
100  $ 

100  $ 
115  $ 
123  $ 
122  $ 

140  $ 
137  $ 
158  $ 
156  $ 

208  $ 
161  $ 
208  $ 
205  $ 

204  $ 
168  $ 
226  $ 
218  $ 

424 
194 
333 
325 

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 18

COMPARISON OF 5-YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*Among Apple Inc., the S&P 500 Index, the S&P Information Technology Indexand the Dow Jones U.S. Technology Supersector IndexApple Inc.S&P 500 IndexS&P Information Technology IndexDow Jones U.S. Technology Supersector Index9/25/159/24/169/30/179/29/189/28/199/26/20$0$100$200$300$400$500Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data

The information set forth below for the five years ended September 26, 2020, is not necessarily indicative of results of future 
operations, and should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition 
and Results of Operations” and the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Part II, Item 8 of this 
Form 10-K to fully understand factors that may affect the comparability of the information presented below (in millions, except 
number of shares, which are reflected in thousands, and per share amounts).

2020

2019

2018

2017

2016

Total net sales
Net income

Earnings per share:

Basic
Diluted

Cash dividends declared per share

Shares used in computing earnings per share:

$  274,515  $  260,174  $  265,595  $  229,234  $  215,639 
$ 
45,687 

55,256  $ 

57,411  $ 

59,531  $ 

48,351  $ 

$ 
$ 

$ 

3.31  $ 
3.28  $ 

2.99  $ 
2.97  $ 

3.00  $ 
2.98  $ 

2.32  $ 
2.30  $ 

2.09 
2.08 

0.795  $ 

0.75  $ 

0.68  $ 

0.60  $ 

0.545 

Basic
Diluted

 17,352,119 
 17,528,214 

 18,471,336 
 18,595,651 

 19,821,510 
 20,000,435 

 20,868,968 
 21,006,767 

 21,883,281 
 22,001,126 

Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities
Total assets
Non-current portion of term debt
Other non-current liabilities

$  191,830  $  205,898  $  237,100  $  268,895  $  237,585 
$  323,888  $  338,516  $  365,725  $  375,319  $  321,686 
75,427 
$ 
$ 
39,986 

91,807  $ 
50,503  $ 

98,667  $ 
54,490  $ 

93,735  $ 
48,914  $ 

97,207  $ 
44,212  $ 

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 19

Item 7.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The  following  discussion  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  the  consolidated  financial  statements  and  accompanying  notes 
included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses 2020 and 2019 items and year-
to-year  comparisons  between  2020  and  2019.  Discussions  of  2018  items  and  year-to-year  comparisons  between  2019  and 
2018 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition 
and  Results  of  Operations”  in  Part  II,  Item  7  of  the  Company’s  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended 
September 28, 2019.

Fiscal Year Highlights

COVID-19 Update

COVID-19 has spread rapidly throughout the world, prompting governments and businesses to take unprecedented measures in 
response. Such measures have included restrictions on travel and business operations, temporary closures of businesses, and 
quarantines and shelter-in-place orders. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly curtailed global economic activity and caused 
significant  volatility  and  disruption  in  global  financial  markets.  The  COVID-19  pandemic  and  the  measures  taken  by  many 
countries  in  response  have  adversely  affected  and  could  in  the  future  materially  adversely  impact  the  Company’s  business, 
results of operations, financial condition and stock price. 

During  2020,  aspects  of  the  Company’s  business  were  adversely  affected  by  the  COVID-19  pandemic,  with  many  of  the 
Company’s retail stores, as well as channel partner points of sale, temporarily closed at various times, and the vast majority of 
the Company’s employees working remotely. The Company has reopened some of its offices and the majority of its retail stores, 
subject to operating restrictions to protect public health and the health and safety of employees and customers, and it continues 
to work on safely re-opening the remainder of its offices and retail stores, subject to local rules and regulations. 

The  full  extent  of  the  future  impact  of  the  COVID-19  pandemic  on  the  Company’s  operational  and  financial  performance  is 
currently  uncertain  and  will  depend  on  many  factors  outside  the  Company’s  control,  including,  without  limitation,  the  timing, 
extent,  trajectory  and  duration  of  the  pandemic,  the  development  and  availability  of  effective  treatments  and  vaccines,  the 
imposition  of  protective  public  safety  measures,  and  the  impact  of  the  pandemic  on  the  global  economy  and  demand  for 
consumer products. Refer to Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading “Risk Factors,” for more information.

The Company believes its existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, along with commercial paper 
and  other  short-term  liquidity  arrangements,  will  be  sufficient  to  satisfy  its  working  capital  needs,  capital  asset  purchases, 
dividends, share repurchases, debt repayments and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations.

Fiscal 2020 Highlights

Total net sales increased 6% or $14.3 billion during 2020 compared to 2019, primarily driven by higher net sales of Services and 
Wearables, Home and Accessories. The weakness in foreign currencies had an unfavorable impact on net sales during 2020.

In April 2020, the Company announced an increase to its current share repurchase program authorization from $175 billion to 
$225  billion  and  raised  its  quarterly  dividend  from  $0.1925  to  $0.205  per  share  beginning  in  May  2020.  During  2020,  the 
Company repurchased $72.5 billion of its common stock and paid dividends and dividend equivalents of $14.1 billion.

On August 28, 2020, the Company effected a four-for-one stock split to shareholders of record as of August 24, 2020. All share, 
RSU and per share or per RSU information has been retroactively adjusted to reflect the stock split.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 20

Products and Services Performance

The following table shows net sales by category for 2020, 2019 and 2018 (dollars in millions):

Net sales by category:

iPhone (1)
Mac (1)
iPad (1)
Wearables, Home and Accessories (1)(2)
Services (3)

Total net sales

2020

Change

2019

Change

2018

$ 
 
 
 
 
$ 

137,781 
28,622 
23,724 
30,620 
53,768 
274,515 

 (3) % $ 
 11 %  
 11 %  
 25 %  
 16 %  
 6 % $ 

142,381 
25,740 
21,280 
24,482 
46,291 
260,174 

 (14) % $ 
 2 %  
 16 %  
 41 %  
 16 %  
 (2) % $ 

164,888 
25,198 
18,380 
17,381 
39,748 
265,595 

(1) Products net sales include amortization of the deferred value of unspecified software upgrade rights, which are bundled in 

the sales price of the respective product.

(2) Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales include sales of AirPods, Apple TV, Apple Watch, Beats products, HomePod, 

iPod touch and Apple-branded and third-party accessories.

(3) Services net sales include sales from the Company’s advertising, AppleCare, digital content and other services. Services net 
sales also include amortization of the deferred value of Maps, Siri, and free iCloud® storage and Apple TV+ services, which 
are bundled in the sales price of certain products.

iPhone

iPhone net sales decreased during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to the absence of new iPhone models in the fourth 
quarter of 2020 and the weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, partially offset by the introduction of iPhone SE 
in the third quarter of 2020.

Mac

Mac net sales increased during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to higher net sales of MacBook Pro.

iPad

iPad net sales increased during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to higher net sales of 10-inch versions of iPad, iPad Air 
and iPad Pro.

Wearables, Home and Accessories

Wearables,  Home  and  Accessories  net  sales  increased  during  2020  compared  to  2019  due  primarily  to  higher  net  sales  of 
AirPods and Apple Watch.

Services

Services net sales increased during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to higher net sales from the App Store, advertising 
and cloud services.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 21

Segment Operating Performance

The  Company  manages  its  business  primarily  on  a  geographic  basis.  The  Company’s  reportable  segments  consist  of  the 
Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest of Asia Pacific. Americas includes both North and South America. Europe 
includes European countries, as well as India, the Middle East and Africa. Greater China includes China mainland, Hong Kong 
and Taiwan. Rest of Asia Pacific includes Australia and those Asian countries not included in the Company’s other reportable 
segments. Although the reportable segments provide similar hardware and software products and similar services, each one is 
managed separately to better align with the location of the Company’s customers and distribution partners and the unique market 
dynamics of each geographic region. Further information regarding the Company’s reportable segments can be found in Part II, 
Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 11, “Segment Information and Geographic 
Data.”

The following table shows net sales by reportable segment for 2020, 2019 and 2018 (dollars in millions):

Net sales by reportable segment:

Americas
Europe
Greater China
Japan
Rest of Asia Pacific
Total net sales

Americas

2020

Change

2019

Change

2018

$ 
 
 
 
 
$ 

124,556 
68,640 
40,308 
21,418 
19,593 
274,515 

 7 % $ 
 14 %  
 (8) %  
 — %  
 10 %  
 6 % $ 

116,914 
60,288 
43,678 
21,506 
17,788 
260,174 

 4 % $ 
 (3) %  
 (16) %  
 (1) %  
 2 %  
 (2) % $ 

112,093 
62,420 
51,942 
21,733 
17,407 
265,595 

Americas net sales increased during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to higher net sales of Services and Wearables, Home 
and Accessories. The weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact on Americas net sales 
during 2020.

Europe

Europe net sales increased during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to higher net sales of iPhone, Wearables, Home and 
Accessories and Services. The weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact on Europe 
net sales during 2020.

Greater China

Greater China net sales decreased during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to lower net sales of iPhone, partially offset by 
higher net sales of Services and iPad. The weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact 
on Greater China net sales during 2020.

Japan

Japan net sales were flat during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to lower net sales of iPhone, offset by higher net sales of 
Services and Wearables, Home and Accessories. The strength of the Japanese yen relative to the U.S. dollar had a favorable 
impact on Japan net sales during 2020.

Rest of Asia Pacific

Rest of Asia Pacific net sales increased during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to higher net sales of Wearables, Home 
and Accessories, Services and iPhone. The weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact 
on Rest of Asia Pacific net sales during 2020.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 22

Gross Margin

Products and Services gross margin and gross margin percentage for 2020, 2019 and 2018 were as follows (dollars in millions):

Gross margin:
Products
Services

Total gross margin

Gross margin percentage:

Products

Services

Total gross margin percentage

Products Gross Margin

2020

2019

2018

$ 
 
$ 

69,461  $ 
35,495 
 
104,956  $ 

68,887  $ 
29,505 
 
98,392  $ 

77,683 
24,156 
101,839 

 31.5% 

 66.0% 
 38.2% 

 32.2% 

 63.7% 
 37.8% 

 34.4% 

 60.8% 
 38.3% 

Products  gross  margin  increased  during  2020  compared  to  2019  due  primarily  to  higher  Products  volume  and  material  cost 
savings, partially offset by the weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar and a different Products mix. Products 
gross margin percentage decreased during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to the weakness in foreign currencies relative 
to the U.S. dollar and a different Products mix, partially offset by material cost savings and higher leverage.

Services Gross Margin

Services  gross  margin  increased  during  2020  compared  to  2019  due  primarily  to  higher  Services  net  sales  and  a  different 
Services mix. Services gross margin percentage increased during 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to a different Services 
mix and higher leverage, partially offset by higher Services costs.

The Company’s future gross margins can be impacted by a variety of factors, as set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K 
under the heading “Risk Factors.” As a result, the Company believes, in general, gross margins will be subject to volatility and 
remain under downward pressure.

Operating Expenses

Operating expenses for 2020, 2019 and 2018 were as follows (dollars in millions):

Research and development

Percentage of total net sales

Selling, general and administrative

Percentage of total net sales

Total operating expenses

Percentage of total net sales

Research and Development

2020
18,752 

$ 

Change

 16 % $ 

 7% 

2019
16,217 

 6% 

Change

 14 % $ 

2018
14,236 

 5% 

$ 

19,916 

 9 % $ 

18,245 

 9 % $ 

16,705 

 7% 

 7% 

 6% 

$ 

38,668 

 12 % $ 

34,462 

 11 % $ 

30,941 

 14% 

 13% 

 12% 

The  year-over-year  growth  in  R&D  expense  in  2020  was  driven  primarily  by  increases  in  headcount-related  expenses.  The 
Company continues to believe that focused investments in R&D are critical to its future growth and competitive position in the 
marketplace, and to the development of new and updated products and services that are central to the Company’s core business 
strategy.

Selling, General and Administrative

The  year-over-year  growth  in  selling,  general  and  administrative  expense  in  2020  was  driven  primarily  by  increases  in 
headcount-related expenses, higher spending on marketing and advertising, and higher variable selling expenses.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 23

Other Income/(Expense), Net

Other income/(expense), net (“OI&E”) for 2020, 2019 and 2018 was as follows (dollars in millions):

Interest and dividend income
Interest expense
Other income/(expense), net

Total other income/(expense), net

2020

Change

2019

Change

2018

$ 
 
 
$ 

3,763 
(2,873) 
(87) 
803 

$ 
 
 
 (56) % $ 

4,961 
(3,576) 
422 
1,807 

$ 
 
 
 (10) % $ 

5,686 
(3,240) 
(441) 
2,005 

The year-over-year decrease in OI&E during 2020 was due primarily to lower interest income and net impairment/gain activity on 
non-marketable securities, partially offset by lower interest expense. The weighted-average interest rate earned by the Company 
on its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was 1.85% and 2.19% in 2020 and 2019, respectively.

Provision for Income Taxes

Provision  for  income  taxes,  effective  tax  rate  and  statutory  federal  income  tax  rate  for 2020,  2019  and  2018  were  as  follows 
(dollars in millions):

Provision for income taxes
Effective tax rate
Statutory federal income tax rate

$ 

2020

9,680 
 14.4% 
 21% 

2019
10,481 

$ 

2018
13,372 

$ 

 15.9% 
 21% 

 18.3% 
 24.5% 

The Company’s effective tax rate for both 2020 and 2019 was lower than the statutory federal income tax rate due primarily to 
the lower tax rate on foreign earnings, including the impact of tax settlements, and tax benefits from share-based compensation.

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2020 was lower compared to 2019 due primarily to a one-time adjustment of U.S. foreign 
tax credits in response to regulations issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury in December 2019 in connection with the 
U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “Act”) and higher tax benefits from share-based compensation.

As  of  September  26,  2020,  the  Company  had  net  deferred  tax  assets  arising  from  deductible  temporary  differences  and  tax 
credits of $11.0 billion and deferred tax liabilities of $2.8 billion. Management believes it is more likely than not that forecasted 
income, including income that may be generated as a result of certain tax planning strategies, together with future reversals of 
existing  taxable  temporary  differences,  will  be  sufficient  to  recover  the  net  deferred  tax  assets.  The  Company  will  continue  to 
evaluate the amount of the valuation allowance, if any, by assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

Financial Instruments

In  June  2016,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  issued  Accounting  Standards  Update  No.  2016-13,  Financial 
Instruments  –  Credit  Losses  (Topic  326):  Measurement  of  Credit  Losses  on  Financial  Instruments  (“ASU  2016-13”),  which 
modifies the measurement of expected credit losses on certain financial instruments. The Company will adopt ASU 2016-13 in its 
first  quarter  of  2021  utilizing  the  modified  retrospective  transition  method.  Based  on  the  composition  of  the  Company’s 
investment portfolio, current market conditions, and historical credit loss activity, the adoption of ASU 2016-13 will not have a 
material impact on its consolidated financial statements.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 24

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The  following  table  presents  selected  financial  information  and  statistics  as  of  and  for  the  years  ended September  26,  2020, 
September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018 (in millions):

Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities (1)
Property, plant and equipment, net
Commercial paper
Total term debt
Working capital
Cash generated by operating activities
Cash generated by/(used in) investing activities
Cash used in financing activities

2020

2019

2018

$ 
$ 
$ 
$ 
$ 
$ 
$ 
$ 

191,830  $ 
36,766  $ 
4,996  $ 
107,440  $ 
38,321  $ 
80,674  $ 
(4,289)  $ 
(86,820)  $ 

205,898  $ 
37,378  $ 
5,980  $ 
102,067  $ 
57,101  $ 
69,391  $ 
45,896  $ 
(90,976)  $ 

237,100 
41,304 
11,964 
102,519 
15,410 
77,434 
16,066 
(87,876) 

(1) As  of  September  26,  2020  and  September  28,  2019,  total  marketable  securities  included  $18.6  billion  and  $18.9  billion, 
respectively, that was restricted from general use, related to the State Aid Decision (refer to Note 5, “Income Taxes” in the 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) and other agreements.

The Company believes its existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, along with commercial paper 
and  other  short-term  liquidity  arrangements,  will  be  sufficient  to  satisfy  its  working  capital  needs,  capital  asset  purchases, 
dividends, share repurchases, debt repayments and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the 
next 12 months.

In connection with the State Aid Decision, as of September 26, 2020, the adjusted recovery amount of €12.9 billion plus interest 
of  €1.2  billion  was  funded  into  escrow,  where  it  will  remain  restricted  from  general  use  pending  the  conclusion  of  all  legal 
proceedings. Further information regarding the State Aid Decision can be found in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes 
to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 5, “Income Taxes.”

The  Company’s  marketable  securities  investment  portfolio  is  primarily  invested  in  highly  rated  securities,  with  the  primary 
objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss. The Company’s investment policy generally requires securities to be 
investment grade and limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer.

During  2020,  cash  generated  by  operating  activities  of  $80.7  billion  was  a  result  of  $57.4  billion  of  net  income,  non-cash 
adjustments to net income of $17.6 billion and an increase in the net change in operating assets and liabilities of $5.7 billion. 
Cash  used  in  investing  activities  of  $4.3  billion  during  2020  consisted  primarily  of  cash  used  to  acquire  property,  plant  and 
equipment of $7.3 billion and cash paid for business acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $1.5 billion, partially offset by proceeds 
from maturities and sales of marketable securities, net of purchases, of $5.5 billion. Cash used in financing activities of $86.8 
billion during 2020 consisted primarily of cash used to repurchase common stock of $72.4 billion, cash used to pay dividends and 
dividend equivalents of $14.1 billion, cash used to repay or redeem term debt of $12.6 billion and net repayments of commercial 
paper of $1.0 billion, partially offset by net proceeds from the issuance of term debt of $16.1 billion.

During  2019,  cash  generated  by  operating  activities  of  $69.4  billion  was  a  result  of  $55.3  billion  of  net  income  and  non-cash 
adjustments to net income of $17.6 billion, partially offset by a decrease in the net change in operating assets and liabilities of 
$3.5 billion. Cash generated by investing activities of $45.9 billion during 2019 consisted primarily of proceeds from sales and 
maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases, of $57.5 billion, partially offset by cash used to acquire property, plant and 
equipment  of  $10.5  billion.  Cash  used  in  financing  activities  of  $91.0  billion  during  2019  consisted  primarily  of  cash  used  to 
repurchase common stock of $66.9 billion, cash used to pay dividends and dividend equivalents of $14.1 billion, cash used to 
repay term debt of $8.8 billion and net repayments of commercial paper of $6.0 billion, partially offset by net proceeds from the 
issuance of term debt of $7.0 billion.

Debt

The Company issues unsecured short-term promissory notes (“Commercial Paper”) pursuant to a commercial paper program. 
The Company uses the net proceeds from the commercial paper program for general corporate purposes, including dividends 
and  share  repurchases.  As  of  September  26,  2020,  the  Company  had  $5.0  billion  of  Commercial  Paper  outstanding,  with  a 
weighted-average interest rate of 0.62% and maturities generally less than nine months.

The Company may enter into agreements to sell certain of its marketable securities with a promise to repurchase the securities 
at a specified time and amount as an additional short-term liquidity arrangement.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 25

As of September 26, 2020, the Company had outstanding floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for an aggregate 
principal  amount  of  $106.1  billion  (collectively  the  “Notes”).  During  2020,  the  Company  issued  $16.1  billion  and  repaid  or 
redeemed $12.6 billion of Notes. The Company has entered, and in the future may enter, into interest rate swaps to manage 
interest rate risk on the Notes. In addition, the Company has entered, and in the future may enter, into foreign currency swaps to 
manage foreign currency risk on the Notes.

Further information regarding the Company’s debt issuances and related hedging activity can be found in Part II, Item 8 of this 
Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 3, “Financial Instruments” and Note 6, “Debt.”

Capital Return Program

As of September 26, 2020, the Company was authorized to purchase up to $225 billion of the Company’s common stock under a 
share repurchase program, of which $168.6 billion had been utilized. During 2020, the Company repurchased 917 million shares 
of its common stock for $72.5 billion, including 141 million shares delivered under a $10.0 billion November 2019 ASR and 64 
million shares delivered under a $6.0 billion May 2020 ASR. The Company’s share repurchase program does not obligate it to 
acquire  any  specific  number  of  shares.  Under  this  program,  shares  may  be  repurchased  in  privately  negotiated  and/or  open 
market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act.

As of September 26, 2020, the Company’s quarterly cash dividend was $0.205 per share. The Company intends to increase its 
dividend on an annual basis, subject to declaration by the Board of Directors.

Contractual Obligations

The following table presents certain payments due by the Company as of September 26, 2020, and includes amounts already 
recorded  on  the  Consolidated  Balance  Sheet,  except  for  manufacturing  purchase  obligations,  other  purchase  obligations  and 
certain lease obligations (in millions):

Payments due in 

2021

Payments due in 

2022–2023

Payments due in 

2024–2025

Payments due 

after 2025

Term debt
Leases
Manufacturing purchase obligations (1)
Other purchase obligations
Deemed repatriation tax payable

Total

$ 
 
 
 
 
$ 

8,750  $ 
1,622 
 
 
47,961 
 
6,178 
1,533 
 
66,044  $ 

20,958  $ 
3,097 
 
 
1,849 
 
2,736 
5,923 
 
34,563  $ 

21,029  $ 
2,352 
 
 
61 
 
400 
12,955 
 
36,797  $ 

55,341  $ 
5,888 
 
 
40 
 
90 
9,254 
 
70,613  $ 

Total
106,078 
12,959 
49,911 
9,404 
29,665 
208,017 

(1) Represents  amount  expected  to  be  paid  under  manufacturing-related  supplier  arrangements,  which  are  primarily 

noncancelable.

Leases

The Company has lease arrangements for certain equipment and facilities, including retail, corporate, manufacturing and data 
center  space.  The  Company’s  retail  store  and  other  facility  leases  typically  have  original  terms  not  exceeding  10  years  and 
generally contain multi-year renewal options. The above contractual obligations table includes future payments under leases that 
had commenced as of September 26, 2020, and were therefore recorded on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet, as 
well  as  leases  that  had  been  signed  but  not  yet  commenced  as  of  September  26,  2020.  Further  information  regarding  the 
Company’s leases can be found in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 
12, “Leases.”

Manufacturing Purchase Obligations

The Company utilizes several outsourcing partners to manufacture sub-assemblies for the Company’s products and to perform 
final  assembly  and  testing  of  finished  products.  These  outsourcing  partners  acquire  components  and  build  product  based  on 
demand  information  supplied  by  the  Company,  which  typically  covers  periods  up  to  150  days.  The  Company  also  obtains 
individual components for its products from a wide variety of individual suppliers.

Other Purchase Obligations

The  Company’s  other  purchase  obligations  consist  of  noncancelable  obligations  to  acquire  capital  assets,  including  product 
tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and noncancelable obligations related to advertising, licensing, R&D, Internet and 
telecommunications services, content creation and other activities.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 26

Deemed Repatriation Tax Payable

As of September 26, 2020, a significant portion of the other non-current liabilities in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet 
consisted of the deemed repatriation tax payable imposed by the Act. The Company plans to pay the deemed repatriation tax 
payable in installments in accordance with the Act.

Other Non-Current Liabilities

The  Company’s  remaining  other  non-current  liabilities  primarily  consist  of  items  for  which  the  Company  is  unable  to  make  a 
reasonably  reliable  estimate  of  the  timing  or  amount  of  payments;  therefore,  such  amounts  are  not  included  in  the  above 
contractual obligations table.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles 
(“GAAP”)  and  the  Company’s  discussion  and  analysis  of  its  financial  condition  and  operating  results  require  the  Company’s 
management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Note 1, “Summary of Significant 
Accounting  Policies,”  of  the  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in  Part  II,  Item  8  of  this  Form  10-K  describes  the 
significant  accounting  policies  and  methods  used  in  the  preparation  of  the  Company’s  consolidated  financial  statements. 
Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions it believes to be reasonable under 
the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. 
Actual results may differ from these estimates, and such differences may be material.

Management  believes  the  Company’s  critical  accounting  policies  and  estimates  are  those  related  to  revenue  recognition, 
valuation of manufacturing-related assets and estimation of inventory purchase commitment cancellation fees, warranty costs, 
income taxes, and legal and other contingencies. Management considers these policies critical because they are both important 
to the portrayal of the Company’s financial condition and operating results, and they require management to make judgments 
and  estimates  about  inherently  uncertain  matters.  The  Company’s  senior  management  has  reviewed  these  critical  accounting 
policies and related disclosures with the Audit and Finance Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors.

Revenue Recognition

The Company has identified up to three performance obligations regularly included in arrangements involving the sale of iPhone, 
Mac, iPad and certain other products. The first performance obligation, which represents the substantial portion of the allocated 
sales price, is the hardware and bundled software delivered at the time of sale. The second performance obligation is the right to 
receive certain product-related bundled services, which include iCloud, Siri and Maps. The third performance obligation is the 
right  to  receive,  on  a  when-and-if-available  basis,  future  unspecified  software  upgrades  relating  to  the  software  bundled  with 
each device. The Company allocates revenue and any related discounts to these performance obligations based on their relative 
stand-alone selling prices (“SSPs”). Because the Company lacks observable prices for the undelivered performance obligations, 
the allocation of revenue is based on the Company’s estimated SSPs. Revenue allocated to the product-related bundled services 
and unspecified software upgrade rights is deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated period they are 
expected to be provided.

The Company’s process for determining estimated SSPs involves management’s judgment and considers multiple factors that 
may  vary  over  time  depending  upon  the  unique  facts  and  circumstances  related  to  each  deliverable.  Should  future  facts  and 
circumstances change, the Company’s SSPs and the future rate of related amortization for product-related bundled services and 
unspecified software upgrade rights related to future sales of these devices could change. Factors subject to change include the 
nature of the product-related bundled services and unspecified software upgrade rights offered, their estimated value and the 
estimated period they are expected to be provided.

Valuation of Manufacturing-Related Assets and Estimation of Inventory Purchase Commitment Cancellation Fees

The Company invests in manufacturing-related assets, including capital assets held at its suppliers’ facilities and prepayments 
provided to certain of its suppliers associated with long-term agreements to secure the supply of inventory. The Company also 
accrues estimated purchase commitment cancellation fees related to inventory orders that have been canceled or are expected 
to be canceled. The Company’s estimates of future product development plans and demand for its products are key inputs in 
determining  the  recoverability  of  manufacturing-related  assets  and  assessing  the  adequacy  of  any  purchase  commitment 
cancellation fee accruals. If there is an abrupt and substantial decline in estimated demand for one or more of the Company’s 
products, a change in the Company’s product development plans, or an unanticipated change in technological requirements for 
any of the Company’s products, the Company may be required to record write-downs or impairments of manufacturing-related 
assets or accrue purchase commitment cancellation fees.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 27

Warranty Costs

The Company offers limited warranties on its new and certified refurbished hardware products and on parts used to repair its 
hardware  products,  and  customers  may  purchase  extended  service  coverage,  where  available,  on  many  of  the  Company’s 
hardware  products.  The  Company  accrues  the  estimated  cost  of  warranties  in  the  period  the  related  revenue  is  recognized 
based on historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost per claim and knowledge of specific product 
failures outside the Company’s typical experience. If actual product failure rates or repair costs differ from estimates, revisions to 
the estimated warranty liabilities would be required.

Income Taxes

The  Company  recognizes  tax  benefits  from  uncertain  tax  positions  if  it  is  more  likely  than  not  that  the  tax  position  will  be 
sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in 
the financial statements from such positions are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater-than-50% likelihood of 
being realized upon ultimate settlement. The calculation of tax liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of 
uncertainties in the application of GAAP and complex tax laws. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with 
management’s expectations could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results.

Legal and Other Contingencies

As discussed in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K under the heading “Legal Proceedings” and in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in 
the  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in  Note  10,  “Commitments  and  Contingencies,”  the  Company  is  subject  to 
various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. The Company records a liability when it is 
probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable, the determination of which requires significant 
judgment. Except as described in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 10, 
“Commitments and Contingencies” under the heading “Contingencies,” in the opinion of management, there was not at least a 
reasonable  possibility  the  Company  may  have  incurred  a  material  loss,  or  a  material  loss  greater  than  a  recorded  accrual, 
concerning loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims.

The outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain. If one or more legal matters were resolved against the Company in a reporting 
period for amounts above management’s expectations, the Company’s financial condition and operating results for that reporting 
period could be materially adversely affected.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Risk Management

The Company regularly reviews its foreign exchange forward and option positions and interest rate swaps, both on a stand-alone 
basis  and  in  conjunction  with  its  underlying  foreign  currency  and  interest  rate  exposures.  Given  the  effective  horizons  of  the 
Company’s risk management activities and the anticipatory nature of the exposures, there can be no assurance these positions 
will  offset  more  than  a  portion  of  the  financial  impact  resulting  from  movements  in  either  foreign  exchange  or  interest  rates. 
Further, the recognition of the gains and losses related to these instruments may not coincide with the timing of gains and losses 
related  to  the  underlying  economic  exposures  and,  therefore,  may  adversely  affect  the  Company’s  financial  condition  and 
operating results.

Interest Rate Risk

The Company’s exposure to changes in interest rates relates primarily to the Company’s investment portfolio and outstanding 
debt. While the Company is exposed to global interest rate fluctuations, the Company’s interest income and expense are most 
sensitive to fluctuations in U.S. interest rates. Changes in U.S. interest rates affect the interest earned on the Company’s cash, 
cash equivalents and marketable securities and the fair value of those securities, as well as costs associated with hedging and 
interest paid on the Company’s debt.

The Company’s investment policy and strategy are focused on the preservation of capital and supporting the Company’s liquidity 
requirements. The Company uses a combination of internal and external management to execute its investment strategy and 
achieve  its  investment  objectives.  The  Company  typically  invests  in  highly  rated  securities,  with  the  primary  objective  of 
minimizing the potential risk of principal loss. The Company’s investment policy generally requires securities to be investment 
grade and limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. To provide a meaningful assessment of the interest rate risk 
associated  with  the  Company’s  investment  portfolio,  the  Company  performed  a  sensitivity  analysis  to  determine  the  impact  a 
change in interest rates would have on the value of the investment portfolio assuming a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield 
curve.  Based  on  investment  positions  as  of  September  26,  2020  and  September  28,  2019,  a  hypothetical  100  basis  point 
increase in interest rates across all maturities would result in a $3.1 billion and $2.8 billion incremental decline in the fair market 
value of the portfolio, respectively. Such losses would only be realized if the Company sold the investments prior to maturity.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 28

As of September 26, 2020 and September 28, 2019, the Company had outstanding floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying 
maturities for an aggregate carrying amount of $107.4 billion and $102.1 billion, respectively. The Company has entered, and in 
the future may enter, into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk on its outstanding term debt. Interest rate swaps allow 
the  Company  to  effectively  convert  fixed-rate  payments  into  floating-rate  payments  or  floating-rate  payments  into  fixed-rate 
payments.  Gains  and  losses  on  term  debt  are  generally  offset  by  the  corresponding  losses  and  gains  on  the  related  hedging 
instrument.  A  100  basis  point  increase  in  market  interest  rates  would  cause  interest  expense  on  the  Company’s  debt  as  of 
September 26, 2020 and September 28, 2019 to increase by $218 million and $325 million on an annualized basis, respectively.

Foreign Currency Risk

In general, the Company is a net receiver of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates, and 
in particular a strengthening of the U.S. dollar, will negatively affect the Company’s net sales and gross margins as expressed in 
U.S. dollars. There is a risk that the Company will have to adjust local currency pricing due to competitive pressures when there 
has been significant volatility in foreign currency exchange rates.

The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions to protect against foreign 
exchange  risks  associated  with  certain  existing  assets  and  liabilities,  certain  firmly  committed  transactions,  forecasted  future 
cash flows and net investments in foreign subsidiaries. In addition, the Company has entered, and in the future may enter, into 
foreign currency contracts to partially offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses on its foreign currency–denominated 
debt issuances. The Company generally hedges portions of its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenue 
and  inventory  purchases,  typically  for  up  to  12  months.  However,  the  Company  may  choose  not  to  hedge  certain  foreign 
exchange exposures for a variety of reasons including, but not limited to, accounting considerations or the prohibitive economic 
cost of hedging particular exposures.

To  provide  an  assessment  of  the  foreign  currency  risk  associated  with  certain  of  the  Company’s  foreign  currency  derivative 
positions, the Company performed a sensitivity analysis using a value-at-risk (“VAR”) model to assess the potential impact of 
fluctuations in exchange rates. The VAR model consisted of using a Monte Carlo simulation to generate thousands of random 
market  price  paths  assuming  normal  market  conditions.  The  VAR  is  the  maximum  expected  loss  in  fair  value,  for  a  given 
confidence interval, to the Company’s foreign currency derivative positions due to adverse movements in rates. The VAR model 
is not intended to represent actual losses but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. Forecasted transactions, firm 
commitments and assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies were excluded from the model. Based on the results of 
the  model,  the  Company  estimates  with  95%  confidence,  a  maximum  one-day  loss  in  fair  value  of  $551  million  as  of 
September 26, 2020, compared to a maximum one-day loss in fair value of $452 million as of September 28, 2019. Because the 
Company  uses  foreign  currency  instruments  for  hedging  purposes,  the  losses  in  fair  value  incurred  on  those  instruments  are 
generally offset by increases in the fair value of the underlying exposures.

Actual  future  gains  and  losses  associated  with  the  Company’s  investment  portfolio,  debt  and  derivative  positions  may  differ 
materially  from  the  sensitivity  analyses  performed  as  of  September  26,  2020  due  to  the  inherent  limitations  associated  with 
predicting  the  timing  and  amount  of  changes  in  interest  rates,  foreign  currency  exchange  rates  and  the  Company’s  actual 
exposures and positions.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 29

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Index to Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended September 26, 2020, September 28, 2019 and 

September 29, 2018

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended September 26, 2020, September 28, 

2019 and September 29, 2018

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 26, 2020 and September 28, 2019
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for the years ended September 26, 2020, September 28, 2019 

and September 29, 2018

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended September 26, 2020, September 28, 2019 and 

September 29, 2018

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)
Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Page

31

32
33

34

35
36
57
59

All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information is not applicable or is not present in amounts 
sufficient  to  require  submission  of  the  schedule,  or  because  the  information  required  is  included  in  the  consolidated  financial 
statements and accompanying notes.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 30

Apple Inc.

(In millions, except number of shares which are reflected in thousands and per share amounts)

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

Net sales:
   Products
   Services

Total net sales

Cost of sales:
   Products
   Services

Total cost of sales
Gross margin

Operating expenses:

Research and development
Selling, general and administrative

Total operating expenses

Operating income
Other income/(expense), net
Income before provision for income taxes
Provision for income taxes
Net income

Earnings per share:

Basic
Diluted

Shares used in computing earnings per share:

Basic
Diluted

Years ended

September 26,

2020

September 28,

2019

September 29,

2018

$ 
 
 

220,747  $ 
53,768 
 
 
274,515 

213,883  $ 
46,291 
 
 
260,174 

225,847 
39,748 
265,595 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
$ 

$ 
$ 

151,286 
18,273 
169,559 
104,956 

18,752 
19,916 
38,668 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

144,996 
16,786 
161,782 
98,392 

16,217 
18,245 
34,462 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
66,288 
 
803 
 
67,091 
9,680 
 
57,411  $ 

 
63,930 
 
1,807 
 
65,737 
10,481 
 
55,256  $ 

148,164 
15,592 
163,756 
101,839 

14,236 
16,705 
30,941 

70,898 
2,005 
72,903 
13,372 
59,531 

3.31  $ 
3.28  $ 

2.99  $ 
2.97  $ 

3.00 
2.98 

 
 

17,352,119 
17,528,214 

 
 

18,471,336 
18,595,651 

 
 

19,821,510 
20,000,435 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 31

Apple Inc.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(In millions)

Net income
Other comprehensive income/(loss):

Change in foreign currency translation, net of tax

Change in unrealized gains/losses on derivative instruments, net of tax:

Change in fair value of derivatives
Adjustment for net (gains)/losses realized and included in net 

income

Total change in unrealized gains/losses on derivative 

instruments

Change in unrealized gains/losses on marketable debt securities, net of 

tax:

Change in fair value of marketable debt securities
Adjustment for net (gains)/losses realized and included in net 

income

Total change in unrealized gains/losses on marketable debt 

securities

Years ended

September 26,

2020

September 28,

2019

September 29,

2018

$ 

57,411  $ 

55,256  $ 

59,531 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

88 

 

(408)   

(525) 

79 

 

(661)   

(1,264)   

23 

 

(1,185)   

(638)   

523 

382 

905 

1,202 

 

3,802 

(63)   

25 

1,139 

 

3,827 

 

 

 

(3,407) 

1 

(3,406) 

Total other comprehensive income/(loss)
Total comprehensive income

 
$ 

42 

 
57,453  $ 

2,781 
 
58,037  $ 

(3,026) 
56,505 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 32

Apple Inc.

(In millions, except number of shares which are reflected in thousands and par value)

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

ASSETS:

September 26,

2020

September 28,

2019

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents
Marketable securities
Accounts receivable, net
Inventories
Vendor non-trade receivables
Other current assets

Total current assets

Non-current assets:

Marketable securities
Property, plant and equipment, net
Other non-current assets

Total non-current assets

Total assets

Current liabilities:

Accounts payable
Other current liabilities
Deferred revenue
Commercial paper
Term debt

Total current liabilities

Non-current liabilities:

Term debt
Other non-current liabilities

Total non-current liabilities

Total liabilities

Commitments and contingencies

Shareholders’ equity:

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY:

$ 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
$ 

$ 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

Common stock and additional paid-in capital, $0.00001 par value: 50,400,000 shares 

Retained earnings
Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)

authorized; 16,976,763 and 17,772,945 shares issued and outstanding, respectively  
 
 
 
$ 

Total shareholders’ equity

Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity

38,016  $ 
52,927 
 
 
16,120 
 
4,061 
 
21,325 
11,264 
 
 
143,713 

100,887 
 
36,766 
 
42,522 
 
180,175 
 
323,888  $ 

42,296  $ 
 
42,684 
6,643 
 
 
4,996 
 
8,773 
105,392 
 

98,667 
54,490 
153,157 
258,549 

 
 
 
 

48,844 
51,713 
22,926 
4,106 
22,878 
12,352 
162,819 

105,341 
37,378 
32,978 
175,697 
338,516 

46,236 
37,720 
5,522 
5,980 
10,260 
105,718 

91,807 
50,503 
142,310 
248,028 

50,779 
14,966 

 
 
(406)   
65,339 
 
323,888  $ 

45,174 
45,898 
(584) 
90,488 
338,516 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 33

Apple Inc.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(In millions, except per share amounts)

Total shareholders’ equity, beginning balances

Common stock and additional paid-in capital:

Beginning balances

Common stock issued
Common stock withheld related to net share settlement of equity 

awards

Share-based compensation

Ending balances

Retained earnings:

Beginning balances

Net income
Dividends and dividend equivalents declared
Common stock withheld related to net share settlement of equity 

awards

Common stock repurchased
Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles

Ending balances

Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss):

Beginning balances

Other comprehensive income/(loss)
Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles

Ending balances

Total shareholders’ equity, ending balances

Dividends and dividend equivalents declared per share or RSU

Years ended

September 26,

2020

September 28,

2019

September 29,

2018

$ 

90,488  $ 

107,147  $ 

134,047 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

$ 

$ 

45,174 
880 

 
 

(2,250)   
 
6,975 
50,779 
 

 
45,898 
57,411 
 
(14,087)   

(1,604)   
(72,516)   
(136)   
 

14,966 

40,201 
781 

 
 

(2,002)   
 
6,194 
45,174 
 

 
70,400 
55,256 
 
(14,129)   

(1,029)   
(67,101)   
 
 

2,501 
45,898 

(584)   
 
42 
136 
 
(406)   

(3,454)   
 
2,781 
 
89 
(584)   

35,867 
669 

(1,778) 
5,443 
40,201 

98,330 
59,531 
(13,735) 

(948) 
(73,056) 
278 
70,400 

(150) 
(3,026) 
(278) 
(3,454) 

65,339  $ 

90,488  $ 

107,147 

0.795  $ 

0.75  $ 

0.68 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 34

Apple Inc.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In millions)

Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, beginning balances

$ 

50,224  $ 

25,913  $ 

20,289 

September 26,

2020

Years ended
September 28,

2019

September 29,

2018

Operating activities:

Net income
Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash generated by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization
Share-based compensation expense

Deferred income tax benefit
Other

Changes in operating assets and liabilities:

Accounts receivable, net
Inventories
Vendor non-trade receivables
Other current and non-current assets
Accounts payable
Deferred revenue
Other current and non-current liabilities

Cash generated by operating activities

Investing activities:

Purchases of marketable securities
Proceeds from maturities of marketable securities
Proceeds from sales of marketable securities
Payments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment
Payments made in connection with business acquisitions, net
Purchases of non-marketable securities
Proceeds from non-marketable securities
Other

Cash generated by/(used in) investing activities

Financing activities:

Proceeds from issuance of common stock
Payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards
Payments for dividends and dividend equivalents
Repurchases of common stock
Proceeds from issuance of term debt, net
Repayments of term debt

Repayments of commercial paper, net
Other

Cash used in financing activities

Increase/(Decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, ending balances

Supplemental cash flow disclosure:

Cash paid for income taxes, net
Cash paid for interest

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
$ 

$ 
$ 

57,411 

11,056 
6,829 
(215) 
(97) 

6,917 
(127) 
1,553 
(9,588) 
(4,062) 
2,081 
8,916 
80,674 

(114,938) 
69,918 
50,473 
(7,309) 
(1,524) 
(210) 
92 
(791) 
(4,289) 

880 
(3,634) 
(14,081) 
(72,358) 
16,091 
(12,629) 
(963) 
(126) 
(86,820) 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

55,256 

12,547 
6,068 
(340) 
(652) 

245 
(289) 
2,931 
873 
(1,923) 
(625) 
(4,700) 
69,391 

(39,630) 
40,102 
56,988 
(10,495) 
(624) 
(1,001) 
1,634 
(1,078) 
45,896 

781 
(2,817) 
(14,119) 
(66,897) 
6,963 
(8,805) 
(5,977) 
(105) 
(90,976) 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

(10,435) 
 
39,789  $ 

24,311 
 
50,224  $ 

59,531 

10,903 
5,340 
(32,590) 
(444) 

(5,322) 
828 
(8,010) 
(423) 
9,175 
(3) 
38,449 
77,434 

(71,356) 
55,881 
47,838 
(13,313) 
(721) 
(1,871) 
353 
(745) 
16,066 

669 
(2,527) 
(13,712) 
(72,738) 
6,969 
(6,500) 
(37) 
— 
(87,876) 

5,624 
25,913 

9,501  $ 
3,002  $ 

15,263  $ 
3,423  $ 

10,417 
3,022 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 35

Apple Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of Presentation and Preparation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Apple Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries (collectively “Apple” 
or  the  “Company”).  Intercompany  accounts  and  transactions  have  been  eliminated.  In  the  opinion  of  the  Company’s 
management, the consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments, which are normal and recurring in nature, necessary 
for fair financial statement presentation. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in 
conformity  with  U.S.  generally  accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to  make  estimates  and  assumptions  that 
affect  the  amounts  reported.  Actual  results  could  differ  materially  from  those  estimates.  Certain  prior  period  amounts  in  the 
consolidated  financial  statements  and  accompanying  notes  have  been  reclassified  to  conform  to  the  current  period’s 
presentation.

The  Company’s  fiscal  year  is  the  52-  or  53-week  period  that  ends  on  the  last  Saturday  of  September.  The  Company’s  fiscal 
years 2020, 2019 and 2018 spanned 52 weeks each. An additional week is included in the first fiscal quarter every five or six 
years to realign the Company’s fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. Unless otherwise stated, references to particular years, 
quarters, months and periods refer to the Company’s fiscal years ended in September and the associated quarters, months and 
periods of those fiscal years.

Common Stock Split

On August 28, 2020, the Company effected a four-for-one stock split to shareholders of record as of August 24, 2020. All share, 
restricted stock unit (“RSU”) and per share or per RSU information has been retroactively adjusted to reflect the stock split.

Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements

Leases

At  the  beginning  of  the  first  quarter  of  2020,  the  Company  adopted  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board’s  (the  “FASB”) 
Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASU 2016-02”), and additional ASUs issued to clarify 
and update the guidance in ASU 2016-02 (collectively, the “new leases standard”), which modifies lease accounting for lessees 
to  increase  transparency  and  comparability  by  recording  lease  assets  and  liabilities  for  operating  leases  and  disclosing  key 
information  about  leasing  arrangements.  The  Company  adopted  the  new  leases  standard  utilizing  the  modified  retrospective 
transition  method,  under  which  amounts  in  prior  periods  presented  were  not  restated.  For  contracts  existing  at  the  time  of 
adoption, the Company elected to not reassess (i) whether any are or contain leases, (ii) lease classification, and (iii) initial direct 
costs. Upon adoption, the Company recorded $7.5 billion of right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and $8.1 billion of lease liabilities on its 
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.

Hedging

At the beginning of the first quarter of 2020, the Company adopted FASB ASU No. 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 
815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities (“ASU 2017-12”). ASU 2017-12 expands component and fair 
value  hedging,  specifies  the  presentation  of  the  effects  of  hedging  instruments,  eliminates  the  separate  measurement  and 
presentation  of  hedge  ineffectiveness,  and  updates  disclosure  requirements  related  to  hedging.  The  Company  adopted  ASU 
2017-12 utilizing the modified retrospective transition method. Upon adoption, the Company recorded a $136 million increase in 
accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) (“AOCI”) and a corresponding decrease in retained earnings in the Condensed 
Consolidated Statement of Shareholders’ Equity.

Advertising Costs

Advertising costs are expensed as incurred and included in selling, general and administrative expenses.

Share-Based Compensation

The Company generally measures share-based compensation based on the closing price of the Company’s common stock on 
the  date  of  grant,  and  recognizes  expense  on  a  straight-line  basis  for  its  estimate  of  equity  awards  that  will  ultimately  vest. 
Further information regarding share-based compensation can be found in Note 9, “Benefit Plans.”

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 36

Earnings Per Share

The  following  table  shows  the  computation  of  basic  and  diluted  earnings  per  share  for  2020,  2019  and  2018  (net  income  in 
millions and shares in thousands):

Numerator:

Net income

Denominator:

Weighted-average basic shares outstanding
Effect of dilutive securities
Weighted-average diluted shares

Basic earnings per share
Diluted earnings per share

2020

2019

2018

$ 

57,411  $ 

55,256  $ 

59,531 

 
 
 

$ 
$ 

17,352,119 
176,095 
17,528,214 

 
 
 

18,471,336 
124,315 
18,595,651 

 
 
 

19,821,510 
178,925 
20,000,435 

3.31  $ 
3.28  $ 

2.99  $ 
2.97  $ 

3.00 
2.98 

The  Company  applies  the  treasury  stock  method  to  determine  the  dilutive  effect  of  potentially  dilutive  securities.  Potentially 
dilutive securities representing 62 million shares of common stock were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per 
share for 2019 because their effect would have been antidilutive.

Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities

All highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the date of purchase are classified as cash equivalents.

The  Company’s  investments  in  marketable  debt  securities  have  been  classified  and  accounted  for  as  available-for-sale.  The 
Company  classifies  its  marketable  debt  securities  as  either  short-term  or  long-term  based  on  each  instrument’s  underlying 
contractual  maturity  date.  Unrealized  gains  and  losses  on  marketable  debt  securities  classified  as  available-for-sale  are 
recognized in other comprehensive income/(loss) (“OCI”). 

The  Company’s  investments  in  marketable  equity  securities  are  classified  based  on  the  nature  of  the  securities  and  their 
availability for use in current operations. The Company’s marketable equity securities are measured at fair value with gains and 
losses recognized in other income/(expense), net (“OI&E”).

The cost of securities sold is determined using the specific identification method.

Inventories

Inventories are measured using the first-in, first-out method.

Property, Plant and Equipment

Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets, 
which for buildings is the lesser of 40 years or the remaining life of the building; between one and five years for machinery and 
equipment,  including  product  tooling  and  manufacturing  process  equipment;  and  the  shorter  of  lease  term  or  useful  life  for 
leasehold  improvements.  Capitalized  costs  related  to  internal-use  software  are  amortized  on  a  straight-line  basis  over  the 
estimated useful lives of the assets, which range from three to seven years. Depreciation and amortization expense on property 
and equipment was $9.7 billion, $11.3 billion and $9.3 billion during 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

Non-cash investing activities involving property, plant and equipment resulted in a net increase/(decrease) to accounts payable 
and other current liabilities of $(2.9) billion and $3.4 billion during 2019 and 2018, respectively.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 37

Non-Marketable Securities

The Company has elected to apply the measurement alternative to equity securities without readily determinable fair values. As 
such, the Company’s non-marketable equity securities are measured at cost, less any impairment, and are adjusted for changes 
in fair value resulting from observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer. Gains and losses on 
non-marketable equity securities are recognized in OI&E.

Restricted Cash and Restricted Marketable Securities

The Company considers cash and marketable securities to be restricted when withdrawal or general use is legally restricted. The 
Company  reports  restricted  cash  as  other  assets  in  the  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets,  and  determines  current  or  non-current 
classification based on the expected duration of the restriction. The Company reports restricted marketable securities as current 
or non-current marketable securities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets based on the classification of the underlying securities.

Fair Value Measurements

The fair values of the Company’s money market funds and certain marketable equity securities are based on quoted prices in 
active markets for identical assets. The valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of the Company’s debt instruments 
and  all  other  financial  instruments,  which  generally  have  counterparties  with  high  credit  ratings,  are  based  on  quoted  market 
prices or model-driven valuations using significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data.

Note 2 – Revenue Recognition

Net sales consist of revenue from the sale of iPhone, Mac, iPad, Services and other products. The Company recognizes revenue 
at the amount to which it expects to be entitled when control of the products or services is transferred to its customers. Control is 
generally  transferred  when  the  Company  has  a  present  right  to  payment  and  title  and  the  significant  risks  and  rewards  of 
ownership  of  products  or  services  are  transferred  to  its  customers.  For  most  of  the  Company’s  Products  net  sales,  control 
transfers  when  products  are  shipped.  For  the  Company’s  Services  net  sales,  control  transfers  over  time  as  services  are 
delivered.  Payment  for  Products  and  Services  net  sales  is  collected  within  a  short  period  following  transfer  of  control  or 
commencement of delivery of services, as applicable.

The  Company  records  reductions  to  Products  net  sales  related  to  future  product  returns,  price  protection  and  other  customer 
incentive programs based on the Company’s expectations and historical experience.

For arrangements with multiple performance obligations, which represent promises within an arrangement that are distinct, the 
Company  allocates  revenue  to  all  distinct  performance  obligations  based  on  their  relative  stand-alone  selling  prices  (“SSPs”). 
When available, the Company uses observable prices to determine SSPs. When observable prices are not available, SSPs are 
established that reflect the Company’s best estimates of what the selling prices of the performance obligations would be if they 
were sold regularly on a stand-alone basis. The Company’s process for estimating SSPs without observable prices considers 
multiple  factors  that  may  vary  depending  upon  the  unique  facts  and  circumstances  related  to  each  performance  obligation 
including, where applicable, prices charged by the Company for similar offerings, market trends in the pricing for similar offerings, 
product-specific business objectives and the estimated cost to provide the performance obligation.

The Company has identified up to three performance obligations regularly included in arrangements involving the sale of iPhone, 
Mac, iPad and certain other products. The first performance obligation, which represents the substantial portion of the allocated 
sales price, is the hardware and bundled software delivered at the time of sale. The second performance obligation is the right to 
receive certain product-related bundled services, which include iCloud, Siri and Maps. The third performance obligation is the 
right  to  receive,  on  a  when-and-if-available  basis,  future  unspecified  software  upgrades  relating  to  the  software  bundled  with 
each device. The Company allocates revenue and any related discounts to these performance obligations based on their relative 
SSPs. Because the Company lacks observable prices for the undelivered performance obligations, the allocation of revenue is 
based  on  the  Company’s  estimated  SSPs.  Revenue  allocated  to  the  delivered  hardware  and  bundled  software  is  recognized 
when  control  has  transferred  to  the  customer,  which  generally  occurs  when  the  product  is  shipped.  Revenue  allocated  to  the 
product-related  bundled  services  and  unspecified  software  upgrade  rights  is  deferred  and  recognized  on  a  straight-line  basis 
over the estimated period they are expected to be provided. Cost of sales related to delivered hardware and bundled software, 
including  estimated  warranty  costs,  are  recognized  at  the  time  of  sale.  Costs  incurred  to  provide  product-related  bundled 
services and unspecified software upgrade rights are recognized as cost of sales as incurred.

For certain long-term service arrangements, the Company has performance obligations for services it has not yet delivered. For 
these arrangements, the Company does not have a right to bill for the undelivered services. The Company has determined that 
any unbilled consideration relates entirely to the value of the undelivered services. Accordingly, the Company has not recognized 
revenue, and has elected not to disclose amounts, related to these undelivered services.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 38

For the sale of third-party products where the Company obtains control of the product before transferring it to the customer, the 
Company recognizes revenue based on the gross amount billed to customers. The Company considers multiple factors when 
determining whether it obtains control of third-party products including, but not limited to, evaluating if it can establish the price of 
the  product,  retains  inventory  risk  for  tangible  products  or  has  the  responsibility  for  ensuring  acceptability  of  the  product.  For 
third-party applications sold through the App Store and certain digital content sold through the Company’s other digital content 
stores,  the  Company  does  not  obtain  control  of  the  product  before  transferring  it  to  the  customer.  Therefore,  the  Company 
accounts for such sales on a net basis by recognizing in Services net sales only the commission it retains.

The Company has elected to record revenue net of taxes collected from customers that are remitted to governmental authorities, 
with the collected taxes recorded within other current liabilities until remitted to the relevant government authority.

Deferred Revenue

As of September 26, 2020 and September 28, 2019, the Company had total deferred revenue of $10.2 billion and $8.1 billion, 
respectively. As of September 26, 2020, the Company expects 65% of total deferred revenue to be realized in less than a year, 
25% within one-to-two years, 8% within two-to-three years and 2% in greater than three years.

Disaggregated Revenue

Net sales disaggregated by significant products and services for 2020, 2019 and 2018 were as follows (in millions):

iPhone (1)
Mac (1)
iPad (1)
Wearables, Home and Accessories (1)(2)
Services (3)

Total net sales (4)

2020

2019

2018

137,781  $ 
 
28,622 
23,724 
 
 
30,620 
53,768 
 
274,515  $ 

142,381  $ 
 
25,740 
21,280 
 
 
24,482 
46,291 
 
260,174  $ 

164,888 
25,198 
18,380 
17,381 
39,748 
265,595 

$ 
 
 
 
 
$ 

(1) Products net sales include amortization of the deferred value of unspecified software upgrade rights, which are bundled in 

the sales price of the respective product.

(2) Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales include sales of AirPods, Apple TV, Apple Watch, Beats products, HomePod, 

iPod touch and Apple-branded and third-party accessories.

(3) Services net sales include sales from the Company’s advertising, AppleCare, digital content and other services. Services net 
sales also include amortization of the deferred value of Maps, Siri, and free iCloud storage and Apple TV+ services, which 
are bundled in the sales price of certain products.

(4)

Includes $5.0 billion of revenue recognized in 2020 that was included in deferred revenue as of September 28, 2019, $5.9 
billion of revenue recognized in 2019 that was included in deferred revenue as of September 29, 2018, and $5.8 billion of 
revenue recognized in 2018 that was included in deferred revenue as of September 30, 2017.

The Company’s proportion of net sales by disaggregated revenue source was generally consistent for each reportable segment 
in Note 11, “Segment Information and Geographic Data” for 2020, 2019 and 2018.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 39

Note 3 – Financial Instruments

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities

The following tables show the Company’s cash and marketable securities by significant investment category as of September 26, 
2020 and September 28, 2019 (in millions):

Adjusted

Cost

Unrealized

Gains

Unrealized

Losses

Fair
Value

2020

Cash and

Cash

Equivalents

Current

Marketable
Securities

Non-Current
Marketable
Securities

Cash

Level 1 (1):

Money market funds

Subtotal

Level 2 (2):

U.S. Treasury securities
U.S. agency securities
Non-U.S. government securities
Certificates of deposit and time 

deposits

Commercial paper
Corporate debt securities
Municipal securities
Mortgage- and asset-backed 

securities
Subtotal

$  17,773  $ 

—  $ 

—  $  17,773  $ 

17,773  $ 

—  $ 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

2,171 
2,171 

28,439 
8,604 
19,361 

10,399 
11,226 
76,937 
1,001 

13,520 
 
  169,487 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

— 
— 

331 
8 
275 

— 
— 
1,834 
22 

314 
2,784 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

— 
— 

— 
— 
(186) 

— 
— 
(175) 
— 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

2,171 
2,171 

28,770 
8,612 
19,450 

10,399 
11,226 
78,596 
1,023 

(24) 
(385) 

13,810 
 
  171,886 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

2,171 
2,171 

8,580 
2,009 
255 

4,043 
3,185 
— 
— 

— 
18,072 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

— 
— 

11,972 
3,078 
3,329 

6,246 
8,041 
19,687 
139 

435 
52,927 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

— 

— 
— 

8,218 
3,525 
15,866 

110 
— 
58,909 
884 

13,375 
100,887 

Total (3)

$  189,431  $ 

2,784  $ 

(385)  $ 191,830  $ 

38,016  $ 

52,927  $ 

100,887 

Adjusted

Cost

Unrealized

Gains

Unrealized

Losses

Fair
Value

2019

Cash and

Cash

Equivalents

Current

Marketable
Securities

Non-Current
Marketable
Securities

Cash

Level 1 (1):

Money market funds

Subtotal

Level 2 (2):

U.S. Treasury securities
U.S. agency securities
Non-U.S. government securities
Certificates of deposit and time 

deposits

Commercial paper
Corporate debt securities
Municipal securities
Mortgage- and asset-backed 

securities
Subtotal

$  12,204  $ 

—  $ 

—  $  12,204  $ 

12,204  $ 

—  $ 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

15,897 
15,897 

30,293 
9,767 
19,821 

4,041 
12,433 
85,383 
958 

 
14,180 
  176,876 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

— 
— 

33 
1 
337 

— 
— 
756 
8 

67 
1,202 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

— 
— 

(62) 
(3) 
(50) 

— 
— 
(92) 
(1) 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

15,897 
15,897 

30,264 
9,765 
20,108 

4,041 
12,433 
86,047 
965 

(73) 
(281) 

 
14,174 
  177,797 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

15,897 
15,897 

6,165 
6,489 
749 

2,024 
5,193 
123 
— 

— 
20,743 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

— 
— 

9,817 
2,249 
3,168 

1,922 
7,240 
26,127 
68 

1,122 
51,713 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

— 

— 
— 

14,282 
1,027 
16,191 

95 
— 
59,797 
897 

13,052 
105,341 

Total (3)

$  204,977  $ 

1,202  $ 

(281)  $ 205,898  $ 

48,844  $ 

51,713  $ 

105,341 

(1) Level 1 fair value estimates are based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.

(2) Level 2 fair value estimates are based on observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets 
and liabilities, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets, or other inputs that are observable 
or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.

(3) As  of  September  26,  2020  and  September  28,  2019,  total  marketable  securities  included  $18.6  billion  and  $18.9  billion, 
respectively, that was restricted from general use, related to the State Aid Decision (refer to Note 5, “Income Taxes”) and 
other agreements.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 40

The  Company  may  sell  certain  of  its  marketable  debt  securities  prior  to  their  stated  maturities  for  reasons  including,  but  not 
limited to, managing liquidity, credit risk, duration and asset allocation. The maturities of the Company’s non-current marketable 
debt securities generally range from one to five years.

The Company typically invests in highly rated securities, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal 
loss.  The  Company’s  investment  policy  generally  requires  securities  to  be  investment  grade  and  limits  the  amount  of  credit 
exposure to any one issuer. Fair values were determined for each individual security in the investment portfolio. When evaluating 
a marketable debt security for other-than-temporary impairment, the Company reviews factors such as the duration and extent to 
which the fair value of the security is less than its cost, the financial condition of the issuer and any changes thereto, and the 
Company’s intent to sell, or whether it will more likely than not be required to sell, the security before recovery of its amortized 
cost basis. As of September 26, 2020, the Company does not consider any of its marketable debt securities to be other-than-
temporarily impaired.

Non-Marketable Securities

The  Company  holds  non-marketable  equity  securities  of  certain  privately  held  companies  without  readily  determinable  fair 
values.  As  of  September  26,  2020  and  September  28,  2019,  the  Company’s  non-marketable  equity  securities  had  a  carrying 
value of $2.8 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively.

Restricted Cash

A reconciliation of the Company’s cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Balance Sheets to cash, cash equivalents and 
restricted cash in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as of September 26, 2020 and September 28, 2019 is as follows 
(in millions):

Cash and cash equivalents
Restricted cash included in other current assets
Restricted cash included in other non-current assets
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash

2020

2019

$ 
 
 
$ 

38,016  $ 
 
36 
1,737 
 
39,789  $ 

48,844 
23 
1,357 
50,224 

The Company’s restricted cash primarily consisted of cash to support the Company’s iPhone Upgrade Program.

Derivative Financial Instruments

The Company may use derivatives to partially offset its business exposure to foreign currency and interest rate risk on expected 
future  cash  flows,  net  investments  in  certain  foreign  subsidiaries,  and  certain  existing  assets  and  liabilities.  However,  the 
Company  may  choose  not  to  hedge  certain  exposures  for  a  variety  of  reasons  including,  but  not  limited  to,  accounting 
considerations  or  the  prohibitive  economic  cost  of  hedging  particular  exposures.  There  can  be  no  assurance  the  hedges  will 
offset more than a portion of the financial impact resulting from movements in foreign currency exchange or interest rates.

To  protect  gross  margins  from  fluctuations  in  foreign  currency  exchange  rates,  certain  of  the  Company’s  subsidiaries  whose 
functional  currency  is  the  U.S.  dollar  may  hedge  a  portion  of  forecasted  foreign  currency  revenue,  and  subsidiaries  whose 
functional  currency  is  not  the  U.S.  dollar  may  hedge  a  portion  of  forecasted  inventory  purchases  not  denominated  in  the 
subsidiaries’  functional  currencies.  The  Company  may  enter  into  forward  contracts,  option  contracts  or  other  instruments  to 
manage  this  risk  and  may  designate  these  instruments  as  cash  flow  hedges.  The  Company  generally  hedges  portions  of  its 
forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenue and inventory purchases, typically for up to 12 months.

To  protect  the  net  investment  in  a  foreign  operation  from  fluctuations  in  foreign  currency  exchange  rates,  the  Company  may 
enter  into  foreign  currency  forward  and  option  contracts  to  offset  a  portion  of  the  changes  in  the  carrying  amounts  of  these 
investments due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, the Company may use non-derivative financial 
instruments, such as its foreign currency–denominated debt, as hedges of its net investments in certain foreign subsidiaries. In 
both of these cases, the Company designates these instruments as net investment hedges.

To protect the Company’s foreign currency–denominated term debt or marketable securities from fluctuations in foreign currency 
exchange rates, the Company may enter into forward contracts, cross-currency swaps or other instruments. These instruments 
may  offset  a  portion  of  the  foreign  currency  remeasurement  gains  or  losses,  or  changes  in  fair  value.  The  Company  may 
designate these instruments as either cash flow or fair value hedges. As of September 26, 2020, the Company’s hedged term 
debt– and marketable securities–related foreign currency transactions are expected to be recognized within 22 years.

The Company may also enter into non-designated foreign currency contracts to offset a portion of the foreign currency exchange 
gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of certain assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 41

To protect the Company’s foreign currency–denominated term debt or marketable securities from fluctuations in interest rates, 
the  Company  may  enter  into  interest  rate  swaps,  options  or  other  instruments.  These  instruments  may  offset  a  portion  of  the 
changes in interest income or expense, or changes in fair value. The Company designates these instruments as either cash flow 
or fair value hedges. As of September 26, 2020, the Company’s hedged interest rate transactions are expected to be recognized 
within seven years.

Cash Flow Hedges

Cash flow hedge amounts that are included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness are deferred in AOCI until the hedged item 
is  recognized  in  earnings.  Deferred  gains  and  losses  associated  with  cash  flow  hedges  of  foreign  currency  revenue  are 
recognized as a component of net sales in the same period as the related revenue is recognized, and deferred gains and losses 
related to cash flow hedges of inventory purchases are recognized as a component of cost of sales in the same period as the 
related costs are recognized. Deferred gains and losses associated with cash flow hedges of interest income or expense are 
recognized in OI&E in the same period as the related income or expense is recognized. For options designated as cash flow 
hedges, the time value is excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and recognized in the financial statement line 
item to which the hedge relates on a straight-line basis over the life of the hedge. Changes in the fair value of amounts excluded 
from the assessment of hedge effectiveness are recognized in OCI.

Derivative  instruments  designated  as  cash  flow  hedges  must  be  de-designated  as  hedges  when  it  is  probable  the  forecasted 
hedged transaction will not occur in the initially identified time period or within a subsequent two-month time period. Deferred 
gains and losses in AOCI associated with such derivative instruments are reclassified into OI&E in the period of de-designation. 
Any  subsequent  changes  in  fair  value  of  such  derivative  instruments  are  reflected  in  OI&E  unless  they  are  re-designated  as 
hedges of other transactions.

Net Investment Hedges

Net investment hedge amounts that are included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness are recorded in OCI as a part of the 
cumulative  translation  adjustment.  For  foreign  exchange  forward  contracts  designated  as  net  investment  hedges,  the  forward 
carry component is excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and recognized in OCI on a straight-line basis over the 
life of the hedge. Changes in the fair value of amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness are recognized in 
OCI.

Fair Value Hedges

Fair value hedge gains and losses related to amounts that are included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness are recognized 
in earnings along with a corresponding loss or gain related to the change in value of the hedged item in the same line in the 
Consolidated Statements of Operations. For foreign exchange forward contracts designated as fair value hedges, the forward 
carry component is excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and recognized in OI&E on a straight-line basis over 
the life of the hedge. Amounts excluded from the effectiveness assessment of fair value hedges and recognized in OI&E were 
gains of $465 million and $777 million for 2020 and 2019, respectively. Changes in the fair value of amounts excluded from the 
assessment of hedge effectiveness are recognized in OCI.

Non-Designated Derivatives

Derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments are adjusted to fair value through earnings in the financial statement 
line item to which the derivative relates.

The Company records all derivatives in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. The Company’s accounting treatment for 
these derivative instruments is based on its hedge designation. The following tables show the Company’s derivative instruments 
at gross fair value as of September 26, 2020 and September 28, 2019 (in millions):

Fair Value of

Derivatives Designated
as Hedge Instruments

2020
Fair Value of

Derivatives Not Designated

as Hedge Instruments

Total

Fair Value

Derivative assets (1):

Foreign exchange contracts
Interest rate contracts

Derivative liabilities (2):

Foreign exchange contracts

$ 
$ 

$ 

749  $ 
1,557  $ 

303  $ 
—  $ 

1,052 
1,557 

1,561  $ 

485  $ 

2,046 

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 42

Fair Value of

Derivatives Designated
as Hedge Instruments

2019
Fair Value of

Derivatives Not Designated

as Hedge Instruments

Total

Fair Value

Derivative assets (1):

Foreign exchange contracts
Interest rate contracts

Derivative liabilities (2):

Foreign exchange contracts
Interest rate contracts

$ 
$ 

$ 
$ 

1,798  $ 
685  $ 

1,341  $ 
105  $ 

323  $ 
—  $ 

2,121 
685 

160  $ 
—  $ 

1,501 
105 

(1) The fair value of derivative assets is measured using Level 2 fair value inputs and is included in other current assets and 

other non-current assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

(2) The fair value of derivative liabilities is measured using Level 2 fair value inputs and is included in other current liabilities and 

other non-current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

The  Company  classifies  cash  flows  related  to  derivative  financial  instruments  as  operating  activities  in  its  Consolidated 
Statements of Cash Flows.

The following table shows the pre-tax gains and losses of the Company’s derivative and non-derivative instruments designated 
as cash flow and fair value hedges in OCI and the Consolidated Statements of Operations for 2020, 2019 and 2018 (in millions):

Gains/(Losses) recognized in OCI – included in effectiveness assessment:

2020

2019

2018

Cash flow hedges:

Foreign exchange contracts
Interest rate contracts

Total

Net investment hedges:

Foreign currency debt

Gains/(Losses) reclassified from AOCI into net income – included in 

effectiveness assessment:

Cash flow hedges:

Foreign exchange contracts
Interest rate contracts

Total

$ 
 
$ 

$ 

$ 
 
$ 

365  $ 
(57)   
308  $ 

(959)  $ 
 
(959)  $ 

— 

682 
1 
683 

15  $ 

(58)  $ 

4 

1,553  $ 
(8)   
1,545  $ 

(116)  $ 
(7)   
(123)  $ 

(482) 
1 
(481) 

The amount excluded from the effectiveness assessment of the Company’s hedges and recognized in OCI was a loss of $168 
million for 2020.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 43

The  following  tables  show  information  about  the  Company’s  derivative  instruments  designated  as  fair  value  hedges  and  the 
related hedged items for 2020, 2019 and 2018 and as of September 26, 2020 (in millions):

Gains/(Losses) on derivative instruments (1):

Foreign exchange contracts
Interest rate contracts

Total

Gains/(Losses) related to hedged items (1):

Marketable securities
Fixed-rate debt

Total

Carrying amounts of hedged assets/(liabilities):

Marketable securities (2)
Fixed-rate debt (3)

2020

2019

2018

(992)  $ 
 
1,114 
122  $ 

1,020  $ 
2,068 
 
3,088  $ 

(168) 
(1,363) 
(1,531) 

991  $ 
(1,114)   
(123)  $ 

(1,018)  $ 
(2,068)   
(3,086)  $ 

167 
1,363 
1,530 

$ 
 
$ 

$ 
 
$ 

2020

16,270 
(21,033) 

493 
(1,541) 

$ 
$ 

$ 
$ 

Cumulative hedging adjustments included in the carrying amounts of hedged items:

Marketable securities carrying amount increases/(decreases)
Fixed-rate debt carrying amount (increases)/decreases

(1) Gains and losses related to fair value hedges are included in OI&E in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

(2) The  carrying  amounts  of  marketable  securities  that  are  designated  as  hedged  items  in  fair  value  hedges  are  included  in 

current marketable securities and non-current marketable securities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

(3) The carrying amounts of fixed-rate debt instruments that are designated as hedged items in fair value hedges are included in 

current term debt and non-current term debt in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

The  following  table  shows  the  notional  amounts  of  the  Company’s  outstanding  derivative  instruments  and  credit  risk  amounts 
associated with outstanding or unsettled derivative instruments as of September 26, 2020 and September 28, 2019 (in millions):

Instruments designated as accounting hedges:

Foreign exchange contracts
Interest rate contracts

Instruments not designated as accounting hedges:

2020

2019

Notional
Amount

Credit Risk

Amount

Notional
Amount

Credit Risk

Amount

$ 
$ 

57,410  $ 
20,700  $ 

749  $ 
1,557  $ 

61,795  $ 
31,250  $ 

1,798 
685 

Foreign exchange contracts

$ 

88,636  $ 

303  $ 

76,868  $ 

323 

The notional amounts for outstanding derivative instruments provide one measure of the transaction volume outstanding and do 
not represent the amount of the Company’s exposure to credit or market loss. The credit risk amounts represent the Company’s 
gross exposure to potential accounting loss on derivative instruments that are outstanding or unsettled if all counterparties failed 
to perform according to the terms of the contract, based on then-current currency or interest rates at each respective date. The 
Company’s exposure to credit loss and market risk will vary over time as currency and interest rates change. Although the table 
above  reflects  the  notional  and  credit  risk  amounts  of  the  Company’s  derivative  instruments,  it  does  not  reflect  the  gains  or 
losses  associated  with  the  exposures  and  transactions  that  the  instruments  are  intended  to  hedge.  The  amounts  ultimately 
realized  upon  settlement  of  these  financial  instruments,  together  with  the  gains  and  losses  on  the  underlying  exposures,  will 
depend on actual market conditions during the remaining life of the instruments.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 44

The  Company  generally  enters  into  master  netting  arrangements,  which  are  designed  to  reduce  credit  risk  by  permitting  net 
settlement of transactions with the same counterparty. To further limit credit risk, the Company generally enters into collateral 
security arrangements that provide for collateral to be received or posted when the net fair value of certain financial instruments 
fluctuates from contractually established thresholds. The Company presents its derivative assets and derivative liabilities at their 
gross fair values in its Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of September 26, 2020 and September 28, 2019, the net cash collateral 
received by the Company related to derivative instruments under its collateral security arrangements was $875 million and $1.6 
billion,  respectively.  The  Company  includes  gross  collateral  posted  and  received  in  other  current  assets  and  other  current 
liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, respectively.

Under master netting arrangements with the respective counterparties to the Company’s derivative contracts, the Company is 
allowed to net settle transactions with a single net amount payable by one party to the other. As of September 26, 2020 and 
September 28, 2019, the potential effects of these rights of set-off associated with the Company’s derivative contracts, including 
the effects of collateral, would be a reduction to both derivative assets and derivative liabilities of $2.8 billion and $2.7 billion, 
respectively, resulting in net derivative liabilities of $312 million and $407 million, respectively.

Accounts Receivable

Trade Receivables

The Company has considerable trade receivables outstanding with its third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, 
resellers, small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. The Company generally does 
not  require  collateral  from  its  customers;  however,  the  Company  will  require  collateral  or  third-party  credit  support  in  certain 
instances to limit credit risk. In addition, when possible, the Company attempts to limit credit risk on trade receivables with credit 
insurance for certain customers or by requiring third-party financing, loans or leases to support credit exposure. These credit-
financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. As such, the Company 
generally does not assume any recourse or credit risk sharing related to any of these arrangements.

As of both September 26, 2020 and September 28, 2019, the Company had no customers that individually represented 10% or 
more  of  total  trade  receivables.  The  Company’s  cellular  network  carriers  accounted  for  51%  of  total  trade  receivables  as  of 
September 28, 2019.

Vendor Non-Trade Receivables

The  Company  has  non-trade  receivables  from  certain  of  its  manufacturing  vendors  resulting  from  the  sale  of  components  to 
these vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies or assemble final products for the Company. The Company purchases these 
components directly from suppliers. As of September 26, 2020, the Company had two vendors that individually represented 10% 
or more of total vendor non-trade receivables, which accounted for 57% and 11%. As of September 28, 2019, the Company had 
two vendors that individually represented 10% or more of total vendor non-trade receivables, which accounted for 59% and 14%.

Note 4 – Consolidated Financial Statement Details

The following tables show the Company’s consolidated financial statement details as of September 26, 2020 and September 28, 
2019 (in millions):

Property, Plant and Equipment, Net

Land and buildings
Machinery, equipment and internal-use software
Leasehold improvements

Gross property, plant and equipment

Accumulated depreciation and amortization
Total property, plant and equipment, net

Other Non-Current Liabilities

Long-term taxes payable
Other non-current liabilities

Total other non-current liabilities

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 45

2020

2019

17,952  $ 
75,291 
 
 
10,283 
103,526 
 
(66,760)   
36,766  $ 

17,085 
69,797 
9,075 
95,957 
(58,579) 
37,378 

2020

2019

28,170  $ 
26,320 
 
54,490  $ 

29,545 
20,958 
50,503 

$ 
 
 
 
 
$ 

$ 
 
$ 

Other Income/(Expense), Net

The following table shows the detail of OI&E for 2020, 2019 and 2018 (in millions):

Interest and dividend income
Interest expense
Other income/(expense), net

Total other income/(expense), net

Note 5 – Income Taxes

U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act

2020

2019

2018

$ 
 
 
$ 

3,763  $ 
(2,873)   
(87)   
803  $ 

4,961  $ 
(3,576)   
 
1,807  $ 

422 

5,686 
(3,240) 
(441) 
2,005 

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”), which significantly changed U.S. tax law. The 
Act  lowered  the  Company’s  U.S.  statutory  federal  income  tax  rate  from  35%  to  21%  effective  January  1,  2018,  while  also 
imposing a deemed repatriation tax on previously deferred foreign income. The Act also created a new minimum tax on certain 
foreign earnings, for which the Company has elected to record certain deferred tax assets and liabilities.

Provision for Income Taxes and Effective Tax Rate

The provision for income taxes for 2020, 2019 and 2018, consisted of the following (in millions):

Federal:

Current
Deferred
Total

State:

Current
Deferred
Total

Foreign:

Current
Deferred
Total

Provision for income taxes

2020

2019

2018

$ 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
$ 

6,306  $ 
(3,619)   
2,687 
 

6,384  $ 
(2,939)   
3,445 
 

41,425 
(33,819) 
7,606 

455 
21 
476 

 
 
 

 
3,134 
 
3,383 
 
6,517 
9,680  $ 

475 
 
(67)   
408 
 

 
3,962 
 
2,666 
 
6,628 
10,481  $ 

551 
48 
599 

3,986 
1,181 
5,167 
13,372 

The  foreign  provision  for  income  taxes  is  based  on  foreign  pre-tax  earnings  of $38.1  billion,  $44.3  billion  and  $48.0  billion  in 
2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

A reconciliation of the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate 
(21%  in  2020  and  2019;  24.5%  in  2018)  to  income  before  provision  for  income  taxes  for 2020,  2019  and  2018,  is  as  follows 
(dollars in millions):

Computed expected tax
State taxes, net of federal effect
Impacts of the Act
Earnings of foreign subsidiaries
Research and development credit, net
Excess tax benefits from equity awards
Other

Provision for income taxes
Effective tax rate

$ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$ 

2020
14,089 
423 
(582) 
(2,534) 
(728) 
(930) 
(58) 
9,680 
 14.4% 

$ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$ 

2019
13,805 
423 
— 
(2,625) 
(548) 
(639) 
65 
10,481 

$ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$ 

2018
17,890 
271 
1,515 
(5,606) 
(560) 
(675) 
537 
13,372 

 15.9% 

 18.3% 

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 46

Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities

As  of  September  26,  2020  and  September  28,  2019,  the  significant  components  of  the  Company’s  deferred  tax  assets  and 
liabilities were (in millions):

Deferred tax assets:

Amortization and depreciation
Accrued liabilities and other reserves
Lease liabilities
Deferred revenue
Other

Total deferred tax assets

Less: Valuation allowance

Total deferred tax assets, net

Deferred tax liabilities:

Minimum tax on foreign earnings
Right-of-use assets
Unrealized gains
Other

Total deferred tax liabilities

Net deferred tax assets

2020

2019

$ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
$ 

8,317  $ 
4,934 
 
 
2,038 
 
1,638 
2,409 
 
19,336 
 
(1,041)   
18,295 
 

 
7,045 
 
1,862 
 
526 
 
705 
10,138 
 
8,157  $ 

11,645 
5,196 
— 
1,372 
2,174 
20,387 
(747) 
19,640 

10,809 
— 
186 
600 
11,595 
8,045 

Deferred  tax  assets  and  liabilities  reflect  the  effects  of  tax  credits  and  the  future  income  tax  effects  of  temporary  differences 
between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, 
and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are 
expected to be recovered or settled.

Uncertain Tax Positions

As  of  September  26,  2020,  the  total  amount  of  gross  unrecognized  tax  benefits  was  $16.5  billion,  of  which  $8.8  billion,  if 
recognized, would impact the Company’s effective tax rate. As of September 28, 2019, the total amount of gross unrecognized 
tax benefits was $15.6 billion, of which $8.6 billion, if recognized, would have impacted the Company’s effective tax rate.

The aggregate change in the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, for 2020, 2019 
and 2018, is as follows (in millions):

Beginning balances

Increases related to tax positions taken during a prior year
Decreases related to tax positions taken during a prior year
Increases related to tax positions taken during the current year
Decreases related to settlements with taxing authorities
Decreases related to expiration of the statute of limitations

Ending balances

2020

2019

2018

$ 
 
 
 
 
 
$ 

15,619  $ 
 
454 
(791)   
 
1,347 
(85)   
(69)   
16,475  $ 

9,694  $ 
5,845 
 
(686)   
1,697 
 
(852)   
(79)   
15,619  $ 

8,407 
2,431 
(2,212) 
1,824 
(756) 
— 
9,694 

The  Company  is  subject  to  taxation  and  files  income  tax  returns  in  the  U.S.  federal  jurisdiction  and  many  state  and  foreign 
jurisdictions. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) concluded its review of the years 2013 through 2015 in 2018, and all 
years  before  2016  are  closed.  Tax  years  after  2014  remain  open  in  certain  major  foreign  jurisdictions  and  are  subject  to 
examination by the taxing authorities. The Company believes that an adequate provision has been made for any adjustments 
that  may  result  from  tax  examinations.  However,  the  outcome  of  tax  audits  cannot  be  predicted  with  certainty.  If  any  issues 
addressed  in  the  Company’s  tax  audits  are  resolved  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  its  expectations,  the  Company  could  be 
required to adjust its provision for income taxes in the period such resolution occurs. Although the timing of resolution and/or 
closure of audits is not certain, the Company believes it is reasonably possible that its gross unrecognized tax benefits could 
decrease in the next 12 months by as much as $3.9 billion.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 47

Interest and Penalties

The  Company  includes  interest  and  penalties  related  to  income  tax  matters  within  the  provision  for  income  taxes.  As  of 
September 26, 2020 and September 28, 2019, the total amount of gross interest and penalties accrued was $1.4 billion and $1.3 
billion, respectively. The Company recognized interest and penalty expense in 2020, 2019 and 2018 of $85 million, $73 million 
and $489 million, respectively.

European Commission State Aid Decision

On  August  30,  2016,  the  European  Commission  announced  its  decision  that  Ireland  granted  state  aid  to  the  Company  by 
providing tax opinions in 1991 and 2007 concerning the tax allocation of profits of the Irish branches of two subsidiaries of the 
Company (the “State Aid Decision”). The State Aid Decision ordered Ireland to calculate and recover additional taxes from the 
Company for the period June 2003 through December 2014. Irish legislative changes, effective as of January 2015, eliminated 
the application of the tax opinions from that date forward. The recovery amount was calculated to be €13.1 billion, plus interest of 
€1.2  billion.  The  Company  and  Ireland  appealed  the  State  Aid  Decision  to  the  General  Court  of  the  Court  of  Justice  of  the 
European Union (the “General Court”). On July 15, 2020, the General Court annulled the State Aid Decision. On September 25, 
2020,  the  European  Commission  appealed  the  General  Court’s  decision  to  the  European  Court  of  Justice.  The  Company 
believes that any incremental Irish corporate income taxes potentially due related to the State Aid Decision would be creditable 
against U.S. taxes, subject to any foreign tax credit limitations in the Act.

On an annual basis, the Company may request approval from the Irish Minister for Finance to reduce the recovery amount for 
certain  taxes  paid  to  other  countries.  As  of  September  26,  2020,  the  adjusted  recovery  amount  was  €12.9  billion,  excluding 
interest.  The  adjusted  recovery  amount  plus  interest  is  funded  into  escrow,  where  it  will  remain  restricted  from  general  use 
pending the conclusion of all legal proceedings. Refer to the Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities section of Note 
3, “Financial Instruments” for more information.

Note 6 – Debt

Commercial Paper and Repurchase Agreements

The Company issues unsecured short-term promissory notes (“Commercial Paper”) pursuant to a commercial paper program. 
The Company uses net proceeds from the commercial paper program for general corporate purposes, including dividends and 
share  repurchases.  As  of  September  26,  2020  and  September  28,  2019,  the  Company  had  $5.0  billion  and  $6.0  billion  of 
Commercial Paper outstanding, respectively, with maturities generally less than nine months. The weighted-average interest rate 
of the Company’s Commercial Paper was 0.62% and 2.24% as of September 26, 2020 and September 28, 2019, respectively. 
The  following  table  provides  a  summary  of  cash  flows  associated  with  the  issuance  and  maturities  of  Commercial  Paper  for 
2020, 2019 and 2018 (in millions):

Maturities 90 days or less:

Proceeds from/(Repayments of) commercial paper, net

Maturities greater than 90 days:

Proceeds from commercial paper
Repayments of commercial paper

Repayments of commercial paper, net

Total repayments of commercial paper, net

2020

2019

2018

100  $ 

(3,248)  $ 

1,044 

 
6,185 
(7,248)   
(1,063)   

 
13,874 
(16,603)   
(2,729)   

14,555 
(15,636) 
(1,081) 

(963)  $ 

(5,977)  $ 

(37) 

$ 

 
 
 

$ 

In  2020,  the  Company  entered  into  agreements  to  sell  certain  of  its  marketable  securities  with  a  promise  to  repurchase  the 
securities  at  a  specified  time  and  amount  (“Repos”).  Due  to  the  Company’s  continuing  involvement  with  the  marketable 
securities, the Company accounted for its Repos as collateralized borrowings. The Company entered into $5.2 billion of Repos 
during 2020, all of which had been settled as of September 26, 2020.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 48

Term Debt

As of September 26, 2020, the Company had outstanding floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for an aggregate 
principal amount of $106.1 billion (collectively the “Notes”). The Notes are senior unsecured obligations and interest is payable in 
arrears.  The  following  table  provides  a  summary  of  the  Company’s  term  debt  as  of  September  26,  2020  and  September  28, 
2019:

2013 – 2019 debt issuances:

Floating-rate notes
Fixed-rate 0.375% – 4.650% notes

Maturities

(calendar year)

Amount

(in millions)

Effective

Interest Rate

Amount

(in millions)

Effective

Interest Rate

2020

2019

2021 – 2022
2020 – 2049

$ 
 

2,250 
87,487 

0.60% – 1.39% $ 
0.28% – 4.78%  

4,250 
97,429 

2.25% – 3.28%
0.28% – 4.78%

First quarter 2020 debt issuance of €2.0 billion:

Fixed-rate 0.000% – 0.500% notes

2025 – 2031

Third quarter 2020 debt issuance of $8.5 billion:

Fixed-rate 0.750% – 2.650% notes

2023 – 2050

Fourth quarter 2020 debt issuance of $5.5 billion:

Fixed-rate 0.550% – 2.550% notes

2025 – 2060

Total term debt

Unamortized premium/(discount) and issuance 

costs, net

Hedge accounting fair value adjustments
Less: Current portion of term debt

Total non-current portion of term debt

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
$ 

2,341 

0.03% – 0.56%  

8,500 

0.84% – 2.72%  

— 

— 

5,500 
106,078 

0.60% – 2.59%  
 

— 
101,679 

(314) 
1,676 
(8,773) 
98,667 

 
 
 
$ 

(224) 
612 
(10,260) 
91,807 

 —% 

 —% 

 — %

To manage interest rate risk on certain of its U.S. dollar–denominated fixed- or floating-rate notes, the Company has entered into 
interest  rate  swaps  to  effectively  convert  the  fixed  interest  rates  to  floating  interest  rates  or  the  floating  interest  rates  to  fixed 
interest  rates  on  a  portion  of  these  notes.  Additionally,  to  manage  foreign  currency  risk  on  certain  of  its  foreign  currency–
denominated  notes,  the  Company  has  entered  into  foreign  currency  swaps  to  effectively  convert  these  notes  to  U.S.  dollar–
denominated notes.

As of September 28, 2019, a portion of the Company’s Japanese yen–denominated notes with a carrying value of $1.0 billion 
was  designated  as  a  hedge  of  the  foreign  currency  exposure  of  the  Company’s  net  investment  in  a  foreign  operation.  The 
Company’s Japanese yen–denominated notes matured during 2020 and the associated net investment hedges were terminated. 
For  further  discussion  regarding  the  Company’s  use  of  derivative  instruments,  refer  to  the  Derivative  Financial  Instruments 
section of Note 3, “Financial Instruments.”

The  effective  interest  rates  for  the  Notes  include  the  interest  on  the  Notes,  amortization  of  the  discount  or  premium  and,  if 
applicable, adjustments related to hedging. The Company recognized $2.8 billion, $3.2 billion and $3.0 billion of interest cost on 
its term debt for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

The future principal payments for the Company’s Notes as of September 26, 2020, are as follows (in millions):

2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
Thereafter

Total term debt

$ 
 
 
 
 
 
$ 

8,750 
9,569 
11,389 
10,115 
10,914 
55,341 
106,078 

As of September 26, 2020 and September 28, 2019, the fair value of the Company’s Notes, based on Level 2 inputs, was $117.1 
billion and $107.5 billion, respectively.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 49

Note 7 – Shareholders’ Equity

Share Repurchase Program

As of September 26, 2020, the Company was authorized to purchase up to $225 billion of the Company’s common stock under a 
share repurchase program, of which $168.6 billion had been utilized. During 2020, the Company repurchased 917 million shares 
of its common stock for $72.5 billion, including 141 million shares delivered under a $10.0 billion November 2019 accelerated 
share  repurchase  arrangement  (“ASR”)  and  64  million  shares  delivered  under  a  $6.0  billion  May  2020  ASR.  The  Company’s 
share repurchase program does not obligate it to acquire any specific number of shares. Under this program, shares may be 
repurchased in privately negotiated and/or open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5-1 under 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).

Shares of Common Stock

The following table shows the changes in shares of common stock for 2020, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands):

Common stock outstanding, beginning balances

Common stock repurchased
Common stock issued, net of shares withheld for employee taxes

Common stock outstanding, ending balances

2020

2019

2018

 
 
 
 

17,772,945 

 
(917,270)   
 
121,088 
16,976,763 
 

 
19,019,943 
(1,380,819)   
 
 

133,821 
17,772,945 

20,504,805 
(1,622,198) 
137,336 
19,019,943 

Note 8 – Comprehensive Income

The  Company’s  OCI  consists  of  foreign  currency  translation  adjustments  from  those  subsidiaries  not  using  the  U.S.  dollar  as 
their functional currency, net deferred gains and losses on certain derivative instruments accounted for as cash flow hedges and 
unrealized gains and losses on marketable debt securities classified as available-for-sale.

The following table shows the pre-tax amounts reclassified from AOCI into the Consolidated Statements of Operations, and the 
associated financial statement line items, for 2020 and 2019 (in millions):

Financial Statement Line Items

2020

2019

$ 
 
 
 
 
 
$ 

(365)  $ 
(584)   
(604)   
 
(1,545)   
(82)   
(1,627)  $ 

8 

(206) 
(482) 
784 
7 
103 
31 
134 

Comprehensive Income Components
Unrealized (gains)/losses on derivative instruments:

Foreign exchange contracts

Interest rate contracts

Total net sales
Total cost of sales
Other income/(expense), net
Other income/(expense), net

Unrealized (gains)/losses on marketable debt securities Other income/(expense), net

Total amounts reclassified from AOCI

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 50

The following table shows the changes in AOCI by component for 2020 and 2019 (in millions):

Balances as of September 29, 2018

$ 

(1,055)  $ 

810  $ 

(3,209)  $ 

(3,454) 

Cumulative 

Foreign
Currency 
Translation

Unrealized 
Gains/Losses
on Derivative 
Instruments

Unrealized 
Gains/Losses
on Marketable 
Debt Securities

Total

Other comprehensive income/(loss) before 

reclassifications

Amounts reclassified from AOCI
Tax effect

Other comprehensive income/(loss)

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

Balances as of September 28, 2019

Other comprehensive income/(loss) before 

reclassifications

Amounts reclassified from AOCI
Tax effect

Other comprehensive income/(loss)

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (1)

Balances as of September 26, 2020

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
$ 

— 
13 

(421)   
 
 
(408)   
 
(1,463)   

— 

91 
 
— 
 
(3)   
 
88 
— 
 
(1,375)  $ 

(949)   
 
103 
208 
 
(638)   
 
 

— 
172 

115 

245 

 
(1,545)   
 
(1,185)   
 
136 
(877)  $ 

4,854 
31 

 
 
(1,058)   
 
3,827 
89 
 
 
707 

1,560 

 
(82)   
(339)   
 
1,139 
— 
 
1,846  $ 

3,484 
134 
(837) 
2,781 
89 
(584) 

1,766 
(1,627) 
(97) 
42 
136 
(406) 

(1) Refer  to  Note  1,  “Summary  of  Significant  Accounting  Policies”  for  more  information  on  the  Company’s  adoption  of  ASU 

2017-12 in 2020.

Note 9 – Benefit Plans

2014 Employee Stock Plan

In  the  second  quarter  of  2014,  shareholders  approved  the  2014  Employee  Stock  Plan  (the  “2014  Plan”)  and  terminated  the 
Company’s authority to grant new awards under the 2003 Employee Stock Plan (the “2003 Plan”). The 2014 Plan provides for 
broad-based  equity  grants  to  employees,  including  executive  officers,  and  permits  the  granting  of  RSUs,  stock  grants, 
performance-based awards, stock options and stock appreciation rights, as well as cash bonus awards. RSUs granted under the 
2014  Plan  generally  vest  over  four  years,  based  on  continued  employment,  and  are  settled  upon  vesting  in  shares  of  the 
Company’s common stock on a one-for-one basis. RSUs granted under the 2014 Plan reduce the number of shares available for 
grant under the plan by a factor of two times the number of RSUs granted. RSUs canceled and shares withheld to satisfy tax 
withholding obligations increase the number of shares available for grant under the 2014 Plan utilizing a factor of two times the 
number of RSUs canceled or shares withheld. Currently, all RSUs granted under the 2014 Plan have dividend equivalent rights 
(“DERs”), which entitle holders of RSUs to the same dividend value per share as holders of common stock. DERs are subject to 
the same vesting and other terms and conditions as the corresponding unvested RSUs. DERs are accumulated and paid when 
the  underlying  shares  vest.  Upon  approval  of  the  2014  Plan,  the  Company  reserved  1.54  billion  shares  plus  the  number  of 
shares remaining that were reserved but not issued under the 2003 Plan. Shares subject to outstanding awards under the 2003 
Plan that expire, are canceled or otherwise terminate, or are withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations for RSUs, will also be 
available for awards under the 2014 Plan. As of September 26, 2020, approximately 808 million shares were reserved for future 
issuance under the 2014 Plan.

Apple Inc. Non-Employee Director Stock Plan

The  Apple  Inc.  Non-Employee  Director  Stock  Plan  (the  “Director  Plan”)  is  a  shareholder-approved  plan  that  (i)  permits  the 
Company to grant awards of RSUs or stock options to the Company’s non-employee directors, (ii) provides for automatic initial 
grants  of  RSUs  upon  a  non-employee  director  joining  the  Board  of  Directors  and  automatic  annual  grants  of  RSUs  at  each 
annual meeting of shareholders, and (iii) permits the Board of Directors to prospectively change the value and relative mixture of 
stock options and RSUs for the initial and annual award grants and the methodology for determining the number of shares of the 
Company’s common stock subject to these grants, in each case within the limits set forth in the Director Plan and without further 
shareholder approval. RSUs granted under the Director Plan reduce the number of shares available for grant under the plan by a 
factor of two times the number of RSUs granted. The Director Plan expires on November 12, 2027. All RSUs granted under the 
Director Plan are entitled to DERs. DERs are subject to the same vesting and other terms and conditions as the corresponding 
unvested RSUs. DERs are accumulated and paid when the underlying shares vest. As of September 26, 2020, approximately 4 
million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Director Plan.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 51

Rule 10b5-1 Trading Plans

During the three months ended September 26, 2020, Section 16 officers Katherine L. Adams, Timothy D. Cook, Chris Kondo, 
Luca Maestri, Deirdre O’Brien and Jeffrey Williams had equity trading plans in place in accordance with Rule 10b5-1(c)(1) under 
the Exchange Act. An equity trading plan is a written document that pre-establishes the amounts, prices and dates (or formula for 
determining  the  amounts,  prices  and  dates)  of  future  purchases  or  sales  of  the  Company’s  stock,  including  shares  acquired 
under the Company’s employee and director equity plans.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

The  Employee  Stock  Purchase  Plan  (the  “Purchase  Plan”)  is  a  shareholder-approved  plan  under  which  substantially  all 
employees may purchase the Company’s common stock through payroll deductions at a price equal to 85% of the lower of the 
fair market values of the stock as of the beginning or the end of six-month offering periods. An employee’s payroll deductions 
under  the  Purchase  Plan  are  limited  to  10%  of  the  employee’s  compensation  and  employees  may  not  purchase  more  than 
$25,000 of stock during any calendar year. As of September 26, 2020, approximately 107 million shares were reserved for future 
issuance under the Purchase Plan.

401(k) Plan

The Company’s 401(k) Plan is a deferred salary arrangement under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the 
401(k) Plan, participating U.S. employees may defer a portion of their pre-tax earnings, up to the IRS annual contribution limit 
($19,500 for calendar year 2020). The Company matches 50% to 100% of each employee’s contributions, depending on length 
of service, up to a maximum of 6% of the employee’s eligible earnings.

Restricted Stock Units

A summary of the Company’s RSU activity and related information for 2020, 2019 and 2018, is as follows:

Number of

RSUs

(in thousands)

Weighted-Average

Grant Date Fair
Value Per RSU

Aggregate
Fair Value
(in millions)

Balance as of September 30, 2017

RSUs granted
RSUs vested
RSUs canceled

Balance as of September 29, 2018

RSUs granted
RSUs vested
RSUs canceled

Balance as of September 28, 2019

RSUs granted
RSUs vested
RSUs canceled

Balance as of September 26, 2020

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

390,284  $ 
181,402  $ 
(178,873)  $ 
(24,195)  $ 
368,618  $ 
147,409  $ 
(168,350)  $ 
(21,609)  $ 
326,068  $ 
156,800  $ 
(157,743)  $ 
(14,347)  $ 
310,778  $ 

27.58 
40.72 
27.81 
31.95 
33.65 
53.99 
33.80 
40.71 
42.30 
59.20 
40.29 
48.07 
51.58  $ 

34,894 

The fair value as of the respective vesting dates of RSUs was $10.8 billion, $8.6 billion and $7.6 billion for 2020, 2019 and 2018, 
respectively. The majority of RSUs that vested in 2020, 2019 and 2018 were net share settled such that the Company withheld 
shares with a value equivalent to the employees’ obligation for the applicable income and other employment taxes, and remitted 
the cash to the appropriate taxing authorities. The total shares withheld were approximately 56 million, 59 million and 64 million 
for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and were based on the value of the RSUs on their respective vesting dates as determined 
by the Company’s closing stock price. Total payments for the employees’ tax obligations to taxing authorities were $3.9 billion, 
$3.0 billion and $2.7 billion in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 52

Share-Based Compensation

The following table shows share-based compensation expense and the related income tax benefit included in the Consolidated 
Statements of Operations for 2020, 2019 and 2018 (in millions):

Share-based compensation expense
Income tax benefit related to share-based compensation expense

$ 
$ 

6,829  $ 
(2,476)  $ 

6,068  $ 
(1,967)  $ 

5,340 
(1,893) 

2020

2019

2018

As of September 26, 2020, the total unrecognized compensation cost related to outstanding RSUs and stock options was $12.2 
billion, which the Company expects to recognize over a weighted-average period of 2.6 years.

Note 10 – Commitments and Contingencies

Accrued Warranty and Guarantees

The following table shows changes in the Company’s accrued warranties and related costs for 2020, 2019 and 2018 (in millions):

Beginning accrued warranty and related costs

Cost of warranty claims
Accruals for product warranty

Ending accrued warranty and related costs

2020

2019

2018

$ 
 
 
$ 

3,570  $ 
(2,956)   
2,740 
 
3,354  $ 

3,692  $ 
(3,857)   
3,735 
 
3,570  $ 

3,834 
(4,115) 
3,973 
3,692 

The Company offers an iPhone Upgrade Program, which is available to customers who purchase a qualifying iPhone in the U.S., 
the U.K. and China mainland. The iPhone Upgrade Program provides customers the right to trade in that iPhone for a specified 
amount when purchasing a new iPhone, provided certain conditions are met. The Company accounts for the trade-in right as a 
guarantee  liability  and  recognizes  arrangement  revenue  net  of  the  fair  value  of  such  right,  with  subsequent  changes  to  the 
guarantee liability recognized within net sales.

Concentrations in the Available Sources of Supply of Materials and Product

Although  most  components  essential  to  the  Company’s  business  are  generally  available  from  multiple  sources,  certain 
components  are  currently  obtained  from  single  or  limited  sources.  The  Company  also  competes  for  various  components  with 
other  participants  in  the  markets  for  smartphones,  personal  computers,  tablets  and  other  electronic  devices.  Therefore,  many 
components used by the Company, including those that are available from multiple sources, are at times subject to industry-wide 
shortage and significant commodity pricing fluctuations.

The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used by its competitors, and new products introduced by 
the  Company  often  utilize  custom  components  available  from  only  one  source.  When  a  component  or  product  uses  new 
technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matured or their manufacturing capacities have 
increased. The continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if suppliers decide to 
concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Company’s requirements.

The Company has entered into agreements for the supply of many components; however, there can be no guarantee that the 
Company will be able to extend or renew these agreements on similar terms, or at all.

Substantially  all  of  the  Company’s  hardware  products  are  manufactured  by  outsourcing  partners  that  are  located  primarily  in 
Asia, with some Mac computers manufactured in the U.S. and Ireland.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 53

Unconditional Purchase Obligations

The  Company  has  entered  into  certain  off–balance  sheet  commitments  that  require  the  future  purchase of  goods  or  services 
(“unconditional  purchase  obligations”).  The  Company’s  unconditional  purchase  obligations  primarily  consist  of  payments  for 
supplier  arrangements,  Internet  and  telecommunication  services,  intellectual  property  licenses  and  content  creation.  Future 
payments  under  noncancelable  unconditional  purchase  obligations  having  a  remaining  term  in  excess  of  one  year  as  of 
September 26, 2020, are as follows (in millions):

2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
Thereafter
Total

Contingencies

$ 
 
 
 
 
 
$ 

3,476 
2,885 
1,700 
357 
104 
130 
8,652 

The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen in the ordinary course of business and that 
have not been fully resolved. The outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain. If one or more legal matters were resolved against 
the  Company  in  a  reporting  period  for  amounts  above  management’s  expectations,  the  Company’s  financial  condition  and 
operating results for that reporting period could be materially adversely affected. In the opinion of management, there was not at 
least a reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred a material loss, or a material loss greater than a recorded accrual, 
concerning loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims, except for the following matters:

VirnetX

VirnetX, Inc. (“VirnetX”) filed a lawsuit against the Company alleging that certain of the Company’s products infringe on patents 
owned by VirnetX. On April 11, 2018, a jury returned a verdict against the Company and awarded damages of $503 million. The 
Company appealed the verdict to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which remanded the case back to the U.S. 
District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, where it is scheduled for a re-trial in October 2020. The Company has challenged 
the validity of the patents at issue in the re-trial at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (the “PTO”), and the PTO has declared 
the patents invalid, subject to further appeal by VirnetX.

iOS Performance Management Cases

Various  civil  litigation  matters  have  been  filed  in  state  and  federal  courts  in  the  U.S.  and  in  various  international  jurisdictions 
alleging violation of consumer protection laws, fraud, computer intrusion and other causes of action related to the Company’s 
performance management feature used in its iPhone operating systems, introduced to certain iPhones in iOS updates 10.2.1 and 
11.2. The claims seek monetary damages and other non-monetary relief. On April 5, 2018, several U.S. federal actions were 
consolidated  through  a  Multidistrict  Litigation  process  into  a  single  action  in  the  U.S.  District  Court  for  the  Northern  District  of 
California  (the  “Northern  California  District  Court”).  On  February  28,  2020,  the  parties  in  the  Multidistrict  Litigation  reached  a 
settlement to resolve the U.S. federal and California state class actions. Under the terms of the settlement, which the Northern 
California District Court preliminarily approved in May 2020, the Company has agreed to pay up to $500 million in the aggregate 
to certain U.S. owners of iPhones if certain conditions are met. The final amount of the settlement will be determined based on 
the number of consumers who file valid claims and the attorneys’ fee award. However, the Company has agreed to pay at least 
$310 million to settle the claims. In addition to civil litigation, the Company is also responding to governmental investigations and 
requests for information relating to the performance management feature. The Company continues to believe that its iPhones 
were not defective, that the performance management feature introduced with iOS updates 10.2.1 and 11.2 was intended to, and 
did, improve customers’ user experience, and that the Company did not make any misleading statements or fail to disclose any 
material information. The Company has accrued its best estimate for the ultimate resolution of these matters.

French Competition Authority

On March 16, 2020, the French Competition Authority (“FCA”) announced its decision that aspects of the Company’s sales and 
distribution practices in France violate French competition law, and issued a fine of €1.1 billion. The Company strongly disagrees 
with the FCA’s decision, and has appealed.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 54

Optis

Optis Wireless Technology, LLC and related entities (“Optis”) filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of 
Texas against the Company alleging that certain of the Company’s products infringe on patents owned by Optis. On August 11, 
2020, a jury returned a verdict against the Company and awarded damages of $506 million. The Company has asked the court 
to set aside the verdict, where the case remains pending.

Note 11 – Segment Information and Geographic Data

The Company reports segment information based on the “management” approach. The management approach designates the 
internal  reporting  used  by  management  for  making  decisions  and  assessing  performance  as  the  source  of  the  Company’s 
reportable segments.

The  Company  manages  its  business  primarily  on  a  geographic  basis.  The  Company’s  reportable  segments  consist  of  the 
Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest of Asia Pacific. Americas includes both North and South America. Europe 
includes European countries, as well as India, the Middle East and Africa. Greater China includes China mainland, Hong Kong 
and Taiwan. Rest of Asia Pacific includes Australia and those Asian countries not included in the Company’s other reportable 
segments. Although the reportable segments provide similar hardware and software products and similar services, each one is 
managed separately to better align with the location of the Company’s customers and distribution partners and the unique market 
dynamics of each geographic region. The accounting policies of the various segments are the same as those described in Note 
1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.”

The  Company  evaluates  the  performance  of  its  reportable  segments  based  on  net  sales  and  operating  income.  Net  sales  for 
geographic segments are generally based on the location of customers and sales through the Company’s retail stores located in 
those  geographic  locations.  Operating  income  for  each  segment  includes  net  sales  to  third  parties,  related  cost  of  sales  and 
operating expenses directly attributable to the segment. Advertising expenses are generally included in the geographic segment 
in  which  the  expenditures  are  incurred.  Operating  income  for  each  segment  excludes  other  income  and  expense  and  certain 
expenses managed outside the reportable segments. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate 
expenses  such  as  research  and  development,  corporate  marketing  expenses,  certain  share-based  compensation  expenses, 
income  taxes,  various  nonrecurring  charges  and  other  separately  managed  general  and  administrative  costs.  The  Company 
does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes.

The following table shows information by reportable segment for 2020, 2019 and 2018 (in millions):

Americas:

Net sales
Operating income

Europe:

Net sales
Operating income

Greater China:
Net sales
Operating income

Japan:

Net sales
Operating income

Rest of Asia Pacific:

Net sales
Operating income

2020

2019

2018

124,556  $ 
37,722  $ 

116,914  $ 
35,099  $ 

112,093 
34,864 

68,640  $ 
22,170  $ 

60,288  $ 
19,195  $ 

62,420 
19,955 

40,308  $ 
15,261  $ 

43,678  $ 
16,232  $ 

51,942 
19,742 

21,418  $ 
9,279  $ 

21,506  $ 
9,369  $ 

21,733 
9,500 

19,593  $ 
6,808  $ 

17,788  $ 
6,055  $ 

17,407 
6,181 

$ 
$ 

$ 
$ 

$ 
$ 

$ 
$ 

$ 
$ 

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 55

A reconciliation of the Company’s segment operating income to the Consolidated Statements of Operations for 2020, 2019 and 
2018 is as follows (in millions):

Segment operating income
Research and development expense
Other corporate expenses, net

Total operating income

2020

2019

2018

$ 
 
 
$ 

91,240  $ 
(18,752)   
(6,200)   
66,288  $ 

85,950  $ 
(16,217)   
(5,803)   
63,930  $ 

90,242 
(14,236) 
(5,108) 
70,898 

The U.S. and China were the only countries that accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net sales in 2020, 2019 and 
2018. There was no single customer that accounted for more than 10% of net sales in 2020, 2019 and 2018. Net sales for 2020, 
2019 and 2018 and long-lived assets as of September 26, 2020 and September 28, 2019 were as follows (in millions):

Net sales:
U.S.
China (1)
Other countries

Total net sales

Long-lived assets:

U.S.
China (1)
Other countries

Total long-lived assets

2020

2019

2018

$ 
 
 
$ 

109,197  $ 
 
40,308 
125,010 
 
274,515  $ 

102,266  $ 
 
43,678 
114,230 
 
260,174  $ 

98,061 
51,942 
115,592 
265,595 

2020

2019

$ 
 
 
$ 

25,890  $ 
 
7,256 
3,620 
 
36,766  $ 

24,711 
9,064 
3,603 
37,378 

(1) China  includes  Hong  Kong  and  Taiwan.  Long-lived  assets  located  in  China  consist  primarily  of  product  tooling  and  manufacturing 

process equipment and assets related to retail stores and related infrastructure.

Note 12 – Leases

The Company has lease arrangements for certain equipment and facilities, including retail, corporate, manufacturing and data 
center  space.  These  leases  typically  have  original  terms  not  exceeding  10  years  and  generally  contain  multi-year  renewal 
options, some of which are reasonably certain of exercise. The Company’s lease arrangements may contain both lease and non-
lease components. The Company has elected to combine and account for lease and non-lease components as a single lease 
component for leases of retail, corporate, and data center facilities.

Payments under the Company’s lease arrangements may be fixed or variable, and variable lease payments are primarily based 
on purchases of output of the underlying leased assets. Lease costs associated with fixed payments on the Company’s operating 
leases were $1.5 billion for 2020. Lease costs associated with variable payments on the Company’s leases were $9.3 billion for 
2020. Rent expense for operating leases, as previously reported under former lease accounting standards, was $1.3 billion and 
$1.2 billion in 2019 and 2018, respectively.

For 2020, the Company made $1.5 billion of fixed cash payments related to operating leases. Non-cash activities involving ROU 
assets  obtained  in  exchange  for  lease  liabilities  were  $10.5  billion  for  2020,  including  the  impact  of  adopting  the  new  leases 
standard in the first quarter of 2020.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 56

The  following  table  shows  ROU  assets  and  lease  liabilities,  and  the  associated  financial  statement  line  items,  as  of 
September 26, 2020 (in millions):

Lease-Related Assets and Liabilities
Right-of-use assets:

Operating leases
Finance leases

Total right-of-use assets

Lease liabilities:

Operating leases

Finance leases

Total lease liabilities

Financial Statement Line Items

2020

Other non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment, net

Other current liabilities
Other non-current liabilities
Other current liabilities
Other non-current liabilities

$ 
 
$ 

$ 
 
 
 
$ 

8,570 
629 
9,199 

1,436 
7,745 
24 
637 
9,842 

Lease liability maturities as of September 26, 2020, are as follows (in millions):

2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
Thereafter

Total undiscounted liabilities

Less: Imputed interest

Total lease liabilities

Operating

Leases

Finance
Leases

Total

$ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$ 

1,493  $ 
 
1,461 
1,317 
 
 
1,068 
 
960 
 
3,845 
10,144 
 
(963)   
9,181  $ 

43  $ 
 
43 
54 
 
 
30 
 
25 
895 
 
1,090 
 
(429)   
661  $ 

1,536 
1,504 
1,371 
1,098 
985 
4,740 
11,234 
(1,392) 
9,842 

The  weighted-average  remaining  lease  term  and  discount  rate  related  to  the  Company’s  lease  liabilities  as  of September  26, 
2020  were  10.3  years  and  2.0%,  respectively.  The  discount  rates  are  generally  based  on  estimates  of  the  Company’s 
incremental borrowing rate, as the discount rates implicit in the Company’s leases cannot be readily determined.

As  of  September  26,  2020,  the  Company  had  $1.7  billion  of  future  payments  under  additional  leases,  primarily  for  corporate 
facilities and retail space, that had not yet commenced. These leases will commence between 2021 and 2022, with lease terms 
ranging from 1 year to 20 years.

Note 13 – Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)

The following tables show a summary of the Company’s quarterly financial information for each of the four quarters of 2020 and 
2019 (in millions, except per share amounts):

Fourth Quarter

Third Quarter

Second Quarter

First Quarter

2020:

Total net sales
Gross margin
Net income

Earnings per share (1):

Basic
Diluted

$ 
$ 
$ 

$ 
$ 

64,698  $ 
24,689  $ 
12,673  $ 

59,685  $ 
22,680  $ 
11,253  $ 

58,313  $ 
22,370  $ 
11,249  $ 

91,819 
35,217 
22,236 

0.74  $ 
0.73  $ 

0.65  $ 
0.65  $ 

0.64  $ 
0.64  $ 

1.26 
1.25 

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 57

2019:

Total net sales
Gross margin
Net income

Earnings per share (1):

Basic
Diluted

Fourth Quarter

Third Quarter

Second Quarter

First Quarter

$ 
$ 
$ 

$ 
$ 

64,040  $ 
24,313  $ 
13,686  $ 

53,809  $ 
20,227  $ 
10,044  $ 

58,015  $ 
21,821  $ 
11,561  $ 

84,310 
32,031 
19,965 

0.76  $ 
0.76  $ 

0.55  $ 
0.55  $ 

0.62  $ 
0.61  $ 

1.05 
1.05 

(1) Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each of the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum of 

quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings per share.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 58

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Apple Inc.

Opinion on the Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Apple Inc. as of September 26, 2020 and September 28, 
2019, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, shareholders’ equity and cash flows for each of 
the  three  years  in  the  period  ended  September  26,  2020,  and  the  related  notes  (collectively  referred  to  as  the  “financial 
statements”). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Apple Inc. at 
September 26, 2020 and September 28, 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in 
the period ended September 26, 2020, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the 
“PCAOB”),  Apple  Inc.’s  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  as  of  September  26,  2020,  based  on  criteria  established  in 
Internal  Control  –  Integrated  Framework  issued  by  the  Committee  of  Sponsoring  Organizations  of  the  Treadway  Commission 
(2013 framework) and our report dated October 29, 2020 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Basis for Opinion

These  financial  statements  are  the  responsibility  of  Apple  Inc.’s  management.  Our  responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion  on 
Apple  Inc.’s  financial  statements  based  on  our  audits.  We  are  a  public  accounting  firm  registered  with  the  PCAOB  and  are 
required to be independent with respect to Apple Inc. in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules 
and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the 
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to 
error  or  fraud.  Our  audits  included  performing  procedures  to  assess  the  risks  of  material  misstatement  of  the  financial 
statements,  whether  due  to  error  or  fraud,  and  performing  procedures  that  respond  to  those  risks.  Such  procedures  included 
examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included 
evaluating  the  accounting  principles  used  and  significant  estimates  made  by  management,  as  well  as  evaluating  the  overall 
presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Critical Audit Matter

The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that was 
communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are 
material  to  the  financial  statements  and  (2)  involved  our  especially  challenging,  subjective,  or  complex  judgments.  The 
communication of the critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, 
and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on 
the account or disclosure to which it relates.

Description of the Matter

Uncertain Tax Positions

As discussed in Note 5 to the financial statements, Apple Inc. is subject to taxation and files 
income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and many state and foreign jurisdictions. 
As of September 26, 2020, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits was $16.5 
billion, of which $8.8 billion, if recognized, would impact Apple Inc.’s effective tax rate. Apple 
Inc. uses significant judgment in the calculation of tax liabilities in estimating the impact of 
uncertainties in the application of technical merits and complex tax laws.

Auditing management’s evaluation of whether an uncertain tax position is more likely than 
not  to  be  sustained  and  the  measurement  of  the  benefit  of  various  tax  positions  can  be 
complex, involves significant judgment, and is based on interpretations of tax laws and legal 
rulings.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 59

How We Addressed the
Matter in Our Audit

We  tested  controls  relating  to  the  evaluation  of  uncertain  tax  positions,  including  controls 
over management’s assessment as to whether tax positions are more likely than not to be 
sustained,  management’s  process  to  measure  the  benefit  of  its  tax  positions,  and  the 
development of the related disclosures.

To evaluate Apple Inc.’s assessment of which tax positions are more likely than not to be  
sustained,  our  audit  procedures 
included,  among  others,  reading  and  evaluating 
management’s assumptions and analysis, and, as applicable, Apple Inc.’s communications 
with  taxing  authorities,  that  detailed  the  basis  and  technical  merits  of  the  uncertain  tax 
positions. We involved our tax subject matter resources in assessing the technical merits of 
certain  of  Apple  Inc.’s  tax  positions  based  on  our  knowledge  of  relevant  tax  laws  and 
experience  with  related  taxing  authorities.  For  certain  tax  positions,  we  also  received 
external legal counsel confirmation letters and discussed the matters with external advisors 
and Apple Inc. tax personnel. In addition, we evaluated Apple Inc.’s disclosure in relation to 
these matters included in Note 5 to the financial statements.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

We have served as Apple Inc.’s auditor since 2009.

San Jose, California
October 29, 2020

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 60

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Apple Inc.

Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

We have audited Apple Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of September 26, 2020, based on criteria established in 
Internal  Control  –  Integrated  Framework  issued  by  the  Committee  of  Sponsoring  Organizations  of  the  Treadway  Commission 
(2013 framework) (the “COSO criteria”). In our opinion, Apple Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control 
over financial reporting as of September 26, 2020, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the 
“PCAOB”),  the  consolidated  balance  sheets  of  Apple  Inc.  as  of  September  26,  2020  and  September  28,  2019,  the  related 
consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, shareholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years 
in the period ended September 26, 2020, and the related notes and our report dated October 29, 2020 expressed an unqualified 
opinion thereon.

Basis for Opinion

Apple Inc.’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment 
of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Annual Report on 
Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on Apple Inc.’s internal control over financial 
reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent 
with respect to Apple Inc. in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the 
audit  to  obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether  effective  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  was  maintained  in  all 
material respects.

Our  audit  included  obtaining  an  understanding  of  internal  control  over  financial  reporting,  assessing  the  risk  that  a  material 
weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, 
and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a 
reasonable basis for our opinion.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

A  company’s  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  is  a  process  designed  to  provide  reasonable  assurance  regarding  the 
reliability  of  financial  reporting  and  the  preparation  of  financial  statements  for  external  purposes  in  accordance  with  U.S. 
generally  accepted  accounting  principles.  A  company’s  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  includes  those  policies  and 
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions 
and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to 
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts 
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the 
company;  and  (3)  provide  reasonable  assurance  regarding  prevention  or  timely  detection  of  unauthorized  acquisition,  use,  or 
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because  of  its  inherent  limitations,  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  may  not  prevent  or  detect  misstatements.  Also, 
projections  of  any  evaluation  of  effectiveness  to  future  periods  are  subject  to  the  risk  that  controls  may  become  inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

San Jose, California
October 29, 2020

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 61

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Based on an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, the Company’s principal 
executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as defined 
in  Rules  13a-15(e)  and  15d-15(e)  under  the  Exchange  Act  were  effective  as  of  September  26,  2020  to  provide  reasonable 
assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is 
(i)  recorded,  processed,  summarized  and  reported  within  the  time  periods  specified  in  the  SEC  rules  and  forms  and 
(ii)  accumulated  and  communicated  to  the  Company’s  management,  including  its  principal  executive  officer  and  principal 
financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Inherent Limitations over Internal Controls

The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted 
accounting principles (“GAAP”). The Company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures 
that: 

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the Company’s assets;

provide  reasonable  assurance  that  transactions  are  recorded  as  necessary  to  permit  preparation  of  financial 
statements in accordance with GAAP, and that the Company’s receipts and expenditures are being made only in 
accordance with authorizations of the Company’s management and directors; and

provide  reasonable  assurance  regarding  prevention  or  timely  detection  of  unauthorized  acquisition,  use,  or 
disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that the Company’s 
internal controls will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can 
provide  only  reasonable,  not  absolute,  assurance  that  the  objectives  of  the  control  system  are  met.  Further,  the  design  of  a 
control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative 
to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of internal controls can provide absolute 
assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. Also, any evaluation of the effectiveness of 
controls  in  future  periods  are  subject  to  the  risk  that  those  internal  controls  may  become  inadequate  because  of  changes  in 
business conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting 
(as  defined  in  Rule  13a-15(f)  under  the  Exchange  Act).  Management  conducted  an  assessment  of  the  effectiveness  of  the 
Company’s  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  based  on  the  criteria  set  forth  in  Internal  Control  –  Integrated  Framework 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework). Based on the Company’s 
assessment, management has concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September 26, 2020 
to  provide  reasonable  assurance  regarding  the  reliability  of  financial  reporting  and  the  preparation  of  financial  statements  in 
accordance with GAAP. The Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued an audit 
report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, which appears in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of 2020, which were 
identified  in  connection  with  management’s  evaluation  required  by  paragraph  (d)  of  Rules  13a-15  and  15d-15  under  the 
Exchange  Act,  that  have  materially  affected,  or  are  reasonably  likely  to  materially  affect,  the  Company’s  internal  control  over 
financial reporting.

Item 9B.  Other Information

None.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 62

PART III

Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

The information required by this Item is set forth under the headings “Corporate Governance,” “Directors,” “Executive Officers” 
and,  if  applicable,  “Other  Information—Security  Ownership  of  Certain  Beneficial  Owners  and  Management”  in  the  Company’s 
2021 Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC within 120 days after September 26, 2020 in connection with the solicitation of 
proxies for the Company’s 2021 annual meeting of shareholders, and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

The information required by this Item is set forth under the heading “Executive Compensation,” under the subheadings “Board 
Oversight  of  Risk  Management”  and,  if  applicable,  “Compensation  Committee  Interlocks  and  Insider  Participation”  under  the 
heading “Corporate Governance” and under the subheadings “Compensation of Directors” and “Director Compensation—2020” 
under  the  heading  “Directors”  in  the  Company’s  2021  Proxy  Statement  to  be  filed  with  the  SEC  within  120  days  after 
September 26, 2020, and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The  information  required  by  this  Item  is  set  forth  under  the  headings  “Other  Information—Security  Ownership  of  Certain 
Beneficial Owners and Management” and “Other Information—Equity Compensation Plan Information” in the Company’s 2021 
Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC within 120 days after September 26, 2020, and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

The information required by this Item is set forth under the subheadings “Role of the Board of Directors,” “Board Committees”, 
“Review,  Approval,  or  Ratification  of  Transactions  with  Related  Persons”  and  “Transactions  with  Related  Persons”  under  the 
heading  “Corporate  Governance”  in  the  Company’s  2021  Proxy  Statement  to  be  filed  with  the  SEC  within  120  days  after 
September 26, 2020, and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services

The information required by this Item is set forth under the subheadings “Fees Paid to Auditors” and “Policy on Audit Committee 
Pre-Approval  of  Audit  and  Non-Audit  Services  Performed  by  the  Independent  Registered  Public  Accounting  Firm”  under  the 
proposal  “Ratification  of  Appointment  of  Independent  Registered  Public  Accounting  Firm”  in  the  Company’s  2021  Proxy 
Statement to be filed with the SEC within 120 days after September 26, 2020, and is incorporated herein by reference.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 63

PART IV

Item 15.  Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules

(a) Documents filed as part of this report

(1) All financial statements

Index to Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended September 26, 2020, September 28, 2019 and 

September 29, 2018

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended September 26, 2020, September 28, 

2019 and September 29, 2018

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 26, 2020 and September 28, 2019
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for the years ended September 26, 2020, September 28, 2019 

and September 29, 2018

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended September 26, 2020, September 28, 2019 and 

September 29, 2018

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)
Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

(2) Financial Statement Schedules

Page

31

32
33

34

35
36
57
59

All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information is not applicable or is not present in amounts 
sufficient  to  require  submission  of  the  schedule,  or  because  the  information  required  is  included  in  the  consolidated  financial 
statements and accompanying notes included in this Form 10-K.

(3) Exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K (1)

Exhibit 
Number
3.1
3.2

4.1**
4.2

4.3

4.4

4.5

4.6

4.7

4.8

Exhibit Description
Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Registrant filed on August 3, 2020.
Amended  and  Restated  Bylaws  of  the  Registrant  effective  as  of  December  13, 

2016.

Description of Securities of the Registrant.
Indenture, dated as of April 29, 2013, between the Registrant and The Bank of 

New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee.

Officer’s Certificate of the Registrant, dated as of May 3, 2013, including forms of 
global  notes  representing  the  Floating  Rate  Notes  due  2016,  Floating  Rate 
Notes due 2018, 0.45% Notes due 2016, 1.00% Notes due 2018, 2.40% Notes 
due 2023 and 3.85% Notes due 2043.

Officer’s Certificate of the Registrant, dated as of May 6, 2014, including forms of 
global  notes  representing  the  Floating  Rate  Notes  due  2017,  Floating  Rate 
Notes due 2019, 1.05% Notes due 2017, 2.10% Notes due 2019, 2.85% Notes 
due 2021, 3.45% Notes due 2024 and 4.45% Notes due 2044.

Officer’s Certificate of the Registrant, dated as of November 10, 2014, including 
forms  of  global  notes  representing  the  1.000%  Notes  due  2022  and  1.625% 
Notes due 2026.

Officer’s  Certificate  of  the  Registrant,  dated  as  of  February  9,  2015,  including 
forms  of  global  notes  representing  the  Floating  Rate  Notes  due  2020,  1.55% 
Notes  due  2020,  2.15%  Notes  due  2022,  2.50%  Notes  due  2025  and  3.45% 
Notes due 2045.

Officer’s Certificate of the Registrant, dated as of May 13, 2015, including forms 
of global notes representing the Floating Rate Notes due 2017, Floating Rate 
Notes  due  2020,  0.900%  Notes  due  2017,  2.000%  Notes  due  2020,  2.700% 
Notes due 2022, 3.200% Notes due 2025, and 4.375% Notes due 2045.

Officer’s Certificate of the Registrant, dated as of July 31, 2015, including forms 
of global notes representing the 3.05% Notes due 2029 and 3.60% Notes due 
2042.

Incorporated by Reference

Form
8-K
8-K

Exhibit
3.1
3.2

Filing Date/
Period End 
Date
8/7/20
12/15/16

S-3

8-K

4.1

4.1

4/29/13

5/3/13

8-K

4.1

5/6/14

8-K

4.1

11/10/14

8-K

4.1

2/9/15

8-K

4.1

5/13/15

8-K

4.1

7/31/15

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 64

Exhibit 
Number
4.9

4.10

4.11

4.12

4.13

4.14

4.15

4.16

4.17

4.18

4.19

4.20

4.21

4.22

4.23

4.24

4.25*
10.1*
10.2*

10.3*

10.4*

Exhibit Description
Officer’s Certificate of the Registrant, dated as of September 17, 2015, including 
forms  of  global  notes  representing  the  1.375%  Notes  due  2024  and  2.000% 
Notes due 2027.

Officer’s  Certificate  of  the  Registrant,  dated  as  of  February  23,  2016,  including 
forms of global notes representing the Floating Rate Notes due 2019, Floating 
Rate  Notes  due  2021,  1.300%  Notes  due  2018,  1.700%  Notes  due  2019, 
2.250%  Notes  due  2021,  2.850%  Notes  due  2023,  3.250%  Notes  due  2026, 
4.500% Notes due 2036 and 4.650% Notes due 2046.

Supplement No. 1 to the Officer’s Certificate of the Registrant, dated as of March 

24, 2016.

Officer’s Certificate of the Registrant, dated as of August 4, 2016, including forms 
of global notes representing the Floating Rate Notes due 2019, 1.100% Notes 
due  2019,  1.550%  Notes  due  2021,  2.450%  Notes  due  2026  and  3.850% 
Notes due 2046.

Officer’s  Certificate  of  the  Registrant,  dated  as  of  February  9,  2017,  including 
forms of global notes representing the Floating Rate Notes due 2019, Floating 
Rate Notes due 2020, Floating Rate Notes due 2022, 1.550% Notes due 2019, 
1.900%  Notes  due  2020,  2.500%  Notes  due  2022,  3.000%  Notes  due  2024, 
3.350% Notes due 2027 and 4.250% Notes due 2047.

Officer’s Certificate of the Registrant, dated as of May 11, 2017, including forms 
of global notes representing the Floating Rate Notes due 2020, Floating Rate 
Notes  due  2022,  1.800%  Notes  due  2020,  2.300%  Notes  due  2022,  2.850% 
Notes due 2024 and 3.200% Notes due 2027.

Officer’s Certificate of the Registrant, dated as of May 24, 2017, including forms 
of  global  notes  representing  the  0.875%  Notes  due  2025  and  1.375%  Notes 
due 2029.

Officer’s Certificate of the Registrant, dated as of June 20, 2017, including form of 

global note representing the 3.000% Notes due 2027.

Officer’s Certificate of the Registrant, dated as of August 18, 2017, including form 

of global note representing the 2.513% Notes due 2024.

Officer’s Certificate of the Registrant, dated as of September 12, 2017, including 
forms of global notes representing the 1.500% Notes due 2019, 2.100% Notes 
due 2022, 2.900% Notes due 2027 and 3.750% Notes due 2047.

Officer’s Certificate of the Registrant, dated as of November 13, 2017, including 
forms of global notes representing the 1.800% Notes due 2019, 2.000% Notes 
due  2020,  2.400%  Notes  due  2023,  2.750%  Notes  due  2025,  3.000%  Notes 
due 2027 and 3.750% Notes due 2047.

Indenture, dated as of November 5, 2018, between the Registrant and The Bank 

of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee.

Officer’s Certificate of the Registrant, dated as of September 11, 2019, including 
forms of global notes representing the 1.700% Notes due 2022, 1.800% Notes 
due  2024,  2.050%  Notes  due  2026,  2.200%  Notes  due  2029  and  2.950% 
Notes due 2049.

Officer’s Certificate of the Registrant, dated as of November 15, 2019, including 
forms  of  global  notes  representing  the  0.000%  Notes  due  2025  and  0.500% 
Notes due 2031.

Officer’s Certificate of the Registrant, dated as of May 11, 2020, including forms 
of  global  notes  representing  the  0.750%  Notes  due  2023,  1.125%  Notes  due 
2025, 1.650% Notes due 2030 and 2.650% Notes due 2050.

Officer’s  Certificate  of  the  Registrant,  dated  as  of  August  20,  2020,  including 
forms of global notes representing the 0.550% Notes due 2025, 1.25% Notes 
due 2030, 2.400% Notes due 2050 and 2.550% Notes due 2060.

Apple Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated as of March 10, 2015.
Form  of  Indemnification  Agreement  between  the  Registrant  and  each  director 

and executive officer of the Registrant.

Apple  Inc.  Non-Employee  Director  Stock  Plan,  as  amended  and  restated  as  of 

February 13, 2018.

2003 Employee Stock Plan, as amended through February 25, 2010.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 65

Incorporated by Reference

Form
8-K

Exhibit
4.1

Filing Date/
Period End 
Date
9/17/15

8-K

4.1

2/23/16

8-K

8-K

4.1

4.1

3/24/16

8/4/16

8-K

4.1

2/9/17

8-K

4.1

5/11/17

8-K

4.1

5/24/17

8-K

8-K

8-K

4.1

4.1

4.1

6/20/17

8/18/17

9/12/17

8-K

4.1

11/13/17

S-3

8-K

4.1

4.1

11/5/18

9/11/19

8-K

4.1

11/15/19

8-K

4.1

5/11/20

8-K

4.1

8/20/20

S-8
8-K
10-Q

8-K

8-K

4.1
10.1
10.2

8/23/18
3/13/15
6/27/09

10.1

2/14/18

10.1

3/1/10

Exhibit 
Number
10.5*

10.6*
10.7*

10.8*

10.9*

10.10*

10.11*

10.12*

10.13*

10.14*

10.15*

Incorporated by Reference

Exhibit Description
Form  of  Restricted  Stock  Unit  Award  Agreement  under  2003  Employee  Stock 

Plan effective as of November 16, 2010.

2014 Employee Stock Plan, as amended and restated as of October 1, 2017.
Form  of  Amendment,  effective  as  of  August  26,  2014,  to  Restricted  Stock  Unit 
Award  Agreements  and  Performance  Award  Agreements  outstanding  as  of 
August 26, 2014.

Form
10-Q

10-K
10-K

Filing Date/
Period End 
Date
12/25/10

Exhibit
10.10

10.8
10.13

9/30/17
9/27/14

Form  of  Restricted  Stock  Unit  Award  Agreement  under  2014  Employee  Stock 

Plan effective as of October 14, 2016.

10-K

10.18

9/24/16

Form  of  Restricted  Stock  Unit  Award  Agreement  under  2014  Employee  Stock 

Plan effective as of September 26, 2017.

10-K

10.20

9/30/17

Form  of  Performance  Award  Agreement  under  2014  Employee  Stock  Plan 

effective as of September 26, 2017.

10-K

10.21

9/30/17

Form  of  Restricted  Stock  Unit  Award  Agreement  under  Non-Employee  Director 

Stock Plan effective as of February 13, 2018.

10-Q

10.2

3/31/18

Form  of  Restricted  Stock  Unit  Award  Agreement  under  2014  Employee  Stock 

Plan effective as of August 21, 2018.

Form  of  Performance  Award  Agreement  under  2014  Employee  Stock  Plan 

effective as of August 21, 2018.

10-K

10.17

9/29/18

10-K

10.18

9/29/18

Form  of  Restricted  Stock  Unit  Award  Agreement  under  2014  Employee  Stock 

Plan effective as of September 29, 2019.

10-K

10.15

9/28/19

Form  of  Performance  Award  Agreement  under  2014  Employee  Stock  Plan 

effective as of September 29, 2019.

10-K

10.16

9/28/19

10.16*, **

10.17*, **

Form  of  Restricted  Stock  Unit  Award  Agreement  under  2014  Employee  Stock 

Plan effective as of August 18, 2020.

Form  of  Performance  Award  Agreement  under  2014  Employee  Stock  Plan 

effective as of August 18, 2020.

21.1**
23.1**
24.1**

31.1**
31.2**
32.1***
101**

104**

*

**

Subsidiaries of the Registrant.
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
Power  of  Attorney  (included  on  the  Signatures  page  of  this  Annual  Report  on 

Form 10-K).

Rule 13a-14(a) / 15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer.
Rule 13a-14(a) / 15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer.
Section 1350 Certifications of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
Inline  XBRL  Document  Set  for  the  consolidated  financial  statements  and 
“Financial  Statements  and 

accompanying  notes 
Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

in  Part 

II, 

Item  8, 

Inline XBRL for the cover page of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, included in 

the Exhibit 101 Inline XBRL Document Set.

Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

Filed herewith.

*** Furnished herewith.

(1) Certain instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt securities of the Registrant are omitted pursuant to Item 
601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K. The Registrant hereby undertakes to furnish to the SEC, upon request, copies of any such 
instruments.

Item 16.  Form 10-K Summary

None.

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 66

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this 
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: October 29, 2020

Apple Inc.

By:

/s/  Luca Maestri
Luca Maestri
Senior Vice President,
Chief Financial Officer

Power of Attorney

KNOW  ALL  PERSONS  BY  THESE  PRESENTS,  that  each  person  whose  signature  appears  below  constitutes  and  appoints 
Timothy D. Cook and Luca Maestri, jointly and severally, his or her attorneys-in-fact, each with the power of substitution, for him 
or her in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with exhibits 
thereto  and  other  documents  in  connection  therewith,  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission,  hereby  ratifying  and 
confirming all that each of said attorneys-in-fact, or his substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons 
on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

Name

Title

Date

/s/    Timothy D. Cook
TIMOTHY D. COOK

/s/    Luca Maestri
LUCA MAESTRI

/s/    Chris Kondo
CHRIS KONDO

/s/    James A. Bell
JAMES A. BELL

/s/    Al Gore
AL GORE

/s/    Andrea Jung
ANDREA JUNG

/s/    Arthur D. Levinson
ARTHUR D. LEVINSON

/s/    Ronald D. Sugar
RONALD D. SUGAR

/s/    Susan L. Wagner
SUSAN L. WAGNER

Chief Executive Officer and Director
(Principal Executive Officer)

October 29, 2020

Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer)

October 29, 2020

Senior Director of Corporate Accounting
(Principal Accounting Officer)

October 29, 2020

October 29, 2020

October 29, 2020

October 29, 2020

October 29, 2020

October 29, 2020

October 29, 2020

Director

Director

Director

Director

Director

Director

Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 67

Exhibit 4.1

DESCRIPTION OF THE REGISTRANT’S SECURITIES
REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

As of September 26, 2020, Apple Inc. (“Apple” or the “Company”) had eleven classes of securities registered under 
Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”): (i) Common Stock, $0.00001 
par value per share (“Common Stock”); (ii) 1.000% Notes due 2022 (the “2022 Notes”); (iii) 1.375% Notes due 2024 
(the “2024 Notes”); (iv) 0.000% Notes due 2025 (the “0.000% 2025 Notes”); (v) 0.875% Notes due 2025 (the “0.875% 
2025 Notes”); (vi) 1.625% Notes due 2026 (the “2026 Notes”); (vii) 2.000% Notes due 2027 (the “2027 Notes”); (viii) 
1.375% Notes due 2029 (the “1.375% 2029 Notes”); (ix) 3.050% Notes due 2029 (the “3.050% 2029 Notes”); (x) 
0.500% Notes due 2031 (the “2031 Notes”); and (xi) 3.600% Notes due 2042 (the “2042 Notes,” and together with the 
2022 Notes, the 2024 Notes, the 0.000% 2025 Notes, the 0.875% 2025 Notes, the 2026 Notes, the 2027 Notes, the 
1.375% 2029 Notes, the 3.050% 2029 Notes, and the 2031 Notes, the “Notes”). Each of the Company’s securities 
registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act are listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC.

DESCRIPTION OF COMMON STOCK

The following is a description of the rights of Common Stock and related provisions of the Company’s 

Restated Articles of Incorporation (the “Articles”) and Amended and Restated Bylaws (the “Bylaws”) and applicable 
California law. This description is qualified in its entirety by, and should be read in conjunction with, the Articles, 
Bylaws and applicable California law.

Authorized Capital Stock

The Company’s authorized capital stock consists of 50,400,000,000 shares of Common Stock.

Common Stock

Fully Paid and Nonassessable

All of the outstanding shares of the Company’s Common Stock are fully paid and nonassessable.

Voting Rights

The holders of shares of Common Stock are entitled to one vote per share on all matters to be voted on by 

such holders. Holders of shares of Common Stock are not entitled to cumulative voting rights.

Except as described below or as required by law, all matters to be voted on by shareholders must be 

approved by the affirmative vote of (i) a majority of the shares present or represented by proxy and voting and (ii) a 
majority of the shares required to constitute a quorum.

In an election of directors where the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the 

candidates receiving the highest number of affirmative votes of the shares entitled to be voted for them up to the 
number of directors to be elected by such shares will be elected.

The Company’s entire Board of Directors or any individual director may be removed without cause by an 
affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote, subject to the provisions of the Company’s 
Bylaws.

Vacancies created by the removal of a director must be filled only by approval of the shareholders, or by the 

unanimous written consent of all shares entitled to vote. The shareholders may elect a director at any time to fill a 
vacancy not filled by the directors, but any such election by written consent, other than to fill a vacancy created by 
removal, requires the consent of a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon.

An amendment of the Bylaws or the Articles may be adopted by the vote of the majority of the outstanding 

shares entitled to vote. Any amendment of the Bylaws specifying or changing a fixed number of directors or the 
maximum or minimum number or changing from a fixed to a variable board or vice versa may only be adopted by the 
shareholders; provided, however, that an amendment of the Bylaws or the Articles reducing the fixed number or the 
minimum number of directors to less than five cannot be adopted if the votes cast against its adoption are equal to 
more than 16 2/3% of the outstanding shares entitled to vote.

Any shareholders’ meeting may be adjourned from time to time by the vote of a majority of the shares 

present in person or represented by proxy.

Dividends

The holders of shares of Common Stock are entitled to receive such dividends, if any, as may be declared 

from time to time by the Company’s Board of Directors in its discretion from funds legally available therefor.

Right to Receive Liquidation Distributions

Upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, the holders of shares of Common Stock are entitled to receive 

pro rata all assets remaining available for distribution to holders of such shares.

No Preemptive or Similar Rights

Common Stock has no preemptive or other subscription rights, and there are no conversion rights or 

redemption or sinking fund provisions with respect to such shares of Common Stock.

Anti-Takeover Provisions of the Articles, Bylaws and California Law

Provisions of the Articles and Bylaws may delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential 
change in control of the Company or change in its management, including transactions in which shareholders might 
otherwise receive a premium for their shares, or transactions that its shareholders might otherwise deem to be in their 
best interests. Among other things, the Articles and Bylaws:

•

•

•

•

•

provide that, except for a vacancy caused by the removal of a director as provided in the Bylaws, a 
vacancy on the Company’s Board of Directors may be filled by a person selected by a majority of the 
remaining directors then in office, whether or not less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director;

provide that shareholders seeking to present proposals before a meeting of shareholders or to nominate 
candidates for election as directors at a meeting of shareholders must provide notice in writing in a 
timely manner, and also specify requirements as to the form and content of a shareholder’s notice;

provide that a shareholder, or group of up to 20 shareholders, that has owned continuously for at least 
three years shares of Common Stock representing an aggregate of at least 3% of the Company’s 
outstanding shares of Common Stock, may nominate and include in the Company’s proxy materials 
director nominees constituting up to 20% of the Company’s Board of Directors, provided that the 
shareholder(s) and nominee(s) satisfy the requirements in the Bylaws;

do not provide for cumulative voting rights for the election of directors; and

provide that special meetings of the shareholders may only be called by two or more members of the 
Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or by one or 
more holders of shares entitled to cast not less than ten percent (10%) of the votes on the record date 
established pursuant to the Company’s Bylaws.

In addition, as a California corporation, the Company is subject to the provisions of Section 1203 of the 

California General Corporation Law, which requires it to provide a fairness opinion to its shareholders in connection 
with their consideration of any proposed “interested party” reorganization transaction.

Listing

“AAPL.”

The Company’s Common Stock is listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC under the trading symbol 

The following description of the Notes is a summary and does not purport to be complete. This description is qualified 
in its entirety by reference, as applicable, to the Indenture, dated as of April 29, 2013, between Apple Inc. and The 

DESCRIPTION OF DEBT SECURITIES

2

Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the “2013 Indenture”) and the Indenture, dated as of 
November 5, 2018, between Apple Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the 
“2018 Indenture,” and together with the 2013 Indenture, the “Indentures”). References in this section to the 
“Company,” “us,” “we” and “our” are solely to Apple Inc. and not to any of its subsidiaries, unless the context requires 
otherwise.

The Notes

Each of the Notes were issued under the applicable Indenture, which provides that debt securities may be 

issued under such Indenture from time to time in one or more series. The Indentures and the Notes are governed by, 
and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York. The Indentures do not limit the amount of debt 
securities that we may issue thereunder. We may, without the consent of the holders of the debt securities of any 
series, issue additional debt securities ranking equally with, and otherwise similar in all respects to, the debt securities 
of the series (except for the date of issuance, the date interest begins to accrue and, in certain circumstances, the 
first interest payment date) so that those additional debt securities will be consolidated and form a single series with 
the debt securities of the series previously offered and sold; provided, however, that any additional debt securities will 
have a separate ISIN number unless certain conditions are met.

The 2022 Notes

We issued €1,400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 2022 Notes on November 10, 2014. The 

maturity date of the 2022 Notes is November 10, 2022, and interest at a rate of 1.000% per annum is paid annually 
on November 10 of each year, beginning on November 10, 2015, and on the maturity date. As of October 16, 2020, 
€1,400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 2022 Notes was outstanding.

The 2024 Notes

We issued €1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 2024 Notes on September 17, 2015. The 

maturity date of the 2024 Notes is January 17, 2024, and interest at a rate of 1.375% per annum is paid annually on 
January 17 of each year, beginning on January 17, 2016, and on the maturity date. As of October 16, 2020, 
€1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 2024 Notes was outstanding.

The 0.000% 2025 Notes

We issued €1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 0.000% 2025 Notes on November 15, 2019. 

The maturity date of the 0.000% 2025 Notes is November 15, 2025, and interest at a rate of 0.000% per annum is 
paid annually on November 15 of each year, beginning on November 15, 2020, and on the maturity date. As of 
October 16, 2020, €1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 0.000% 2025 Notes was outstanding.

The 0.875% 2025 Notes

We issued €1,250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 0.875% 2025 Notes on May 24, 2017. The 

maturity date of the 0.875% 2025 Notes is May 24, 2025, and interest at a rate of 0.875% per annum is paid annually 
on May 24 of each year, beginning on May 24, 2018, and on the maturity date. As of October 16, 2020, 
€1,250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 0.875% 2025 Notes was outstanding.

The 2026 Notes

We issued €1,400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 2026 Notes on November 10, 2014. The 

maturity date of the 2026 Notes is November 10, 2026, and interest at a rate of 1.625% per annum is paid annually 
on November 10 of each year, beginning on November 10, 2015, and on the maturity date. As of October 16, 2020, 
€1,400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 2026 Notes was outstanding.

The 2027 Notes

We issued €1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 2027 Notes on September 17, 2015. The 

maturity date of the 2027 Notes is September 17, 2027, and interest at a rate of 2.000% per annum is paid annually 
on September 17 of each year, beginning on September 17, 2016, and on the maturity date. As of October 16, 2020, 
€1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 2027 Notes was outstanding.

3

The 1.375% 2029 Notes

We issued €1,250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 1.375% 2029 Notes on May 24, 2017. The 

maturity date of the 1.375% 2029 Notes is May 24, 2029, and interest at a rate of 1.375% per annum is paid annually 
on May 24 of each year, beginning on May 24, 2018, and on the maturity date. As of October 16, 2020, 
€1,250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 1.375% 2029 Notes was outstanding.

The 3.050% 2029 Notes

We issued £750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 3.050% 2029 Notes on July 31, 2015. The 

maturity date of the 3.050% 2029 Notes is July 31, 2029, and interest at a rate of 3.050% per annum is paid semi-
annually on January 31 and July 31 of each year, beginning on January 31, 2016, and on the maturity date. As of 
October 16, 2020, £750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 3.050% 2029 Notes was outstanding.

The 2031 Notes

We issued €1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 2031 Notes on November 15, 2019. The 

maturity date of the 2031 Notes is November 15, 2031, and interest at a rate of 0.500% per annum is paid annually 
on November 15 of each year, beginning on November 15, 2020, and on the maturity date. As of October 16, 2020, 
€1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 2031 Notes was outstanding.

The 2042 Notes

We issued £500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 2042 Notes on July 31, 2015. The maturity date 

of the 2042 Notes is July 31, 2042, and interest at a rate of 3.600% per annum is paid semi-annually on January 31 
and July 31 of each year, beginning on January 31, 2016, and on the maturity date. As of October 16, 2020, 
£500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 2042 Notes was outstanding.

Ranking

The Notes are our senior unsecured indebtedness and rank equally with each other and with all of our other 

senior unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness from time to time outstanding. However, the Notes are 
structurally subordinated to any indebtedness and preferred stock, if any, of our subsidiaries and are effectively 
subordinated to any secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. 
Claims of the creditors of our subsidiaries generally have priority with respect to the assets and earnings of such 
subsidiaries over the claims of our creditors, including holders of the Notes. Accordingly, the Notes are effectively 
subordinated to creditors, including trade creditors and preferred stockholders, if any, of our subsidiaries. The 
Indentures do not restrict our ability or that of our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness.

Payment on the Notes

All payments of principal of, the redemption price (if any), and interest and additional amounts (if any) on the 

2022 Notes, the 2024 Notes, the 0.000% 2025 Notes, the 0.875% 2025 Notes, the 2026 Notes, the 2027 Notes, the 
1.375% 2029 Notes and the 2031 Notes are payable in euro, provided that, if the euro is unavailable to the Company 
due to the imposition of exchange controls or other circumstances beyond the Company’s control, or if the euro is no 
longer being used by the then member states of the European Monetary Union that have adopted the euro as their 
currency or for the settlement of transactions by public institutions of or within the international banking community, 
then all payments in respect of the 2022 Notes, the 2024 Notes, the 0.000% 2025 Notes, the 0.875% 2025 Notes, the 
2026 Notes, the 2027 Notes, the 1.375% 2029 Notes and the 2031 Notes will be made in U.S. dollars, until the euro 
is again available to the Company or so used. The amount payable on any date in euro will be converted into U.S. 
dollars at the rate mandated by the U.S. Federal Reserve Board as of the close of business on the second Business 
Day prior to the relevant payment date or, in the event the U.S. Federal Reserve Board has not mandated a rate of 
conversion, on the basis of the most recent U.S. dollar/euro exchange rate published in The Wall Street Journal on or 
prior to the second Business Day prior to the relevant payment date. Any payment in respect of the 2022 Notes, the 
2024 Notes, the 0.000% 2025 Notes, the 0.875% 2025 Notes, the 2026 Notes, the 2027 Notes, the 1.375% 2029 
Notes and the 2031 Notes so made in U.S. dollars will not constitute an event of default under such Notes or the 
applicable Indenture.

With respect to the 2022 Notes, the 2024 Notes, the 0.000% 2025 Notes, the 0.875% 2025 Notes, the 2026 

Notes, the 2027 Notes, the 1.375% 2029 Notes and the 2031 Notes, “Business Day” means any day, other than a 
Saturday or Sunday, (1) which is not a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York or London are 

4

authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close and (2) on which the Trans-European Automated 
Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer system (the TARGET2 system), or any successor thereto, is open.

All payments of principal of, the redemption price (if any), and interest and additional amounts (if any) on the 

3.050% 2029 Notes and the 2042 Notes are payable in pounds sterling, or, if the United Kingdom adopts euro as its 
lawful currency, in euro. If pounds sterling or, in the event the Notes are redenominated into euro, euro is unavailable 
to the Company due to the imposition of exchange controls or other circumstances beyond the Company’s control or, 
in the event the notes are redenominated into euro, the euro is no longer being used by the then member states of 
the European Monetary Union that have adopted the euro as their currency or for the settlement of transactions by 
public institutions of or within the international banking community, then all payments in respect of the 3.050% 2029 
Notes and the 2042 Notes will be made in U.S. dollars until the pound sterling or euro, as the case may be, is again 
available to the Company or so used. The amount payable on any date in pounds sterling or, in the event such Notes 
are redenominated into euro, euro will be converted into U.S. dollars at the rate mandated by the U.S. Federal 
Reserve Board as of the close of business on the second Business Day prior to the relevant payment date or, in the 
event the U.S. Federal Reserve Board has not mandated a rate of conversion, on the basis of the most recent U.S. 
dollar/pounds sterling or, in the event the Notes are redenominated into euro, the most recent U.S. dollar/euro 
exchange rate published in The Wall Street Journal on or prior to the second Business Day prior to the relevant 
payment date. Any payment in respect of the 3.050% 2029 Notes and the 2042 Notes so made in U.S. dollars will not 
constitute an event of default under such Notes or the 2013 Indenture.

With respect to the 3.050% 2029 Notes and the 2042 Notes, “Business Day” means any day which is not a 
day on which banking institutions in The City of New York or London or the relevant place of payment are authorized 
or required by law, regulation or executive order to close.

Payment of Additional Amounts

The terms of the Notes state that all payments of principal and interest in respect of the Notes will be made 

free and clear of, and without deduction or withholding for or on account of any present or future taxes, duties, 
assessments or other governmental charges of whatsoever nature required to be deducted or withheld by the United 
States or any political subdivision or taxing authority of or in the United States, unless such withholding or deduction 
is required by law.

All of the Notes also contain a covenant substantially similar to the following:

The Company will, subject to the exceptions and limitations set forth below, pay as additional interest on the 

Notes such additional amounts (“Additional Amounts”) as are necessary in order that the net payment by the 
Company or the paying agent of the Company for the applicable Notes (“Paying Agent”) of the principal of and 
interest on the Notes to a holder who is not a United States person (as defined below), after withholding or deduction 
for any present or future tax, assessment or other governmental charge (“Tax”) imposed by the United States or a 
taxing authority in the United States, will not be less than the amount provided in the Notes to be then due and 
payable; provided, however, that the foregoing obligation to pay Additional Amounts shall not apply:

(1)

to any Tax that is imposed by reason of the holder (or the beneficial owner for whose benefit such 
holder holds the Notes), or a fiduciary, settlor, beneficiary, member or shareholder of the holder if the 
holder is an estate, trust, partnership or corporation, or a person holding a power over an estate or trust 
administered by a fiduciary holder, being considered as:

(a) being or having been engaged in a trade or business in the United States or having or having had a 

permanent establishment in the United States;

(b) having a current or former connection with the United States (other than a connection arising solely 

as a result of the ownership of the Notes, the receipt of any payment or the enforcement of any 
rights hereunder), including being or having been a citizen or resident of the United States;

(c) being or having been a personal holding company, a passive foreign investment company or a 

controlled foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or a corporation that has 
accumulated earnings to avoid U.S. federal income tax;

(d) being or having been a “10-percent shareholder” of the Company as defined in Section 871(h)(3) of 

the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”);

5

(e) being a controlled foreign corporation that is related to the Company within the meaning of Section 

864(d)(4) of the Code; or

(f) being a bank receiving payments on an extension of credit made pursuant to a loan agreement 

entered into in the ordinary course of its trade or business;

to any holder that is not the sole beneficial owner of the Notes, or a portion of the Notes, or that is a 
fiduciary, partnership or limited liability company, but only to the extent that a beneficial owner with 
respect to the holder, a beneficiary or settlor with respect to the fiduciary, or a beneficial owner or 
member of the partnership or limited liability company would not have been entitled to the payment of 
an additional amount had the beneficiary, settlor, beneficial owner or member received directly its 
beneficial or distributive share of the payment;

to any Tax that would not have been imposed but for the failure of the holder or any other person to 
comply with certification, identification or information reporting requirements concerning the nationality, 
residence, identity or connection with the United States of the holder or beneficial owner of the Notes, if 
compliance is required by statute, by regulation of the United States or any taxing authority therein or by 
an applicable income tax treaty to which the United States is a party as a precondition to exemption 
from such Tax (including, but not limited to, the requirement to provide Internal Revenue Service Forms 
W-8BEN, W-8BEN-E, W-8ECI, or any subsequent versions thereof or successor thereto, and any 
documentation requirement under an applicable income tax treaty);

to any Tax that is imposed otherwise than by withholding by the Company or a Paying Agent from the 
payment;

to any Tax that would not have been imposed but for a change in law, regulation, or administrative or 
judicial interpretation that becomes effective more than 10 days after the payment becomes due or is 
duly provided for, whichever occurs later;

to any estate, inheritance, gift, sales, excise, transfer, wealth, capital gains or personal property or 
similar Tax;

to any Tax required to be withheld by any paying agent from any payment of principal of or interest on 
any Note, if such payment can be made without such withholding by at least one other paying agent;

to any Tax that would not have been imposed but for the presentation by the holder of any Note, where 
presentation is required, for payment on a date more than 30 days after the date on which payment 
became due and payable or the date on which payment thereof is duly provided for, whichever occurs 
later;

to any Tax imposed under Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code (or any amended or successor 
provisions), any current or future regulations or official interpretations thereof, any agreement entered 
into pursuant to Section 1471(b) of the Code, or any fiscal or regulatory legislation, rules or practices 
adopted pursuant to any intergovernmental agreement entered into in connection with the 
implementation of such sections of the Code; or

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

(9)

(10) in the case of any combination of items (1) through (9) above.

The Notes are subject in all cases to any tax, fiscal or other law or regulation or administrative or judicial 

interpretation applicable to the Notes. Except as specifically provided under this heading “—Payment of Additional 
Amounts,” the Company will not be required to make any payment for any Tax imposed by any government or a 
political subdivision or taxing authority of or in any government or political subdivision. As used under “—Payment of 
Additional Amounts” and under “—Redemption for Tax Reasons,” the term “United States” means the United States 
of America (including the states and the District of Columbia and any political subdivision thereof), and the term 
“United States person” means any individual who is a citizen or resident of the United States for U.S. federal income 
tax purposes, a corporation, partnership or other entity created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, 
any state of the United States or the District of Columbia (other than a partnership that is not treated as a United 
States person under any applicable Treasury regulations), or any estate or trust the income of which is subject to U.S. 
federal income taxation regardless of its source.

6

Redemption for Tax Reasons

If, as a result of any change in, or amendment to, or, in the case of the 0.000% 2025 Notes and the 2031 

Notes, introduction of, the laws (or any regulations or rulings promulgated under the laws) of the United States (or any 
political subdivision or taxing authority of or in the United States), or any change in, or amendments to, an official 
position regarding the application or interpretation of such laws, regulations or rulings, which change or amendment is 
announced or becomes effective on or after the date of the applicable prospectus supplement, we become, or based 
upon a written opinion of independent counsel selected by us, will become obligated to pay additional amounts as 
described above under the heading “Payments of Additional Amounts” with respect to a series of the Notes, then we 
may at our option redeem, in whole, but not in part, in the case of the 2022 Notes, the 2024 Notes, the 2026 Notes, 
the 2027 Notes, the 3.050% 2029 Notes and the 2042 Notes, the Notes of such series on not less than 30 nor more 
than 60 days’ prior notice,  in the case of the 0.875% 2025 Notes and the 1.375% 2029 Notes, the Notes of such 
series on not less than 15 nor more than 60 days’ notice, and in the case of the 0.000% 2025 Notes and the 2031 
Notes, the Notes of such series on not less than 10 nor more than 60 days’ prior notice, in each case at a redemption 
price equal to 100% of their principal amount, together with interest accrued but unpaid on those Notes to (and, in the 
case of the 0.000% 2025 Notes and the 2031 Notes, but not including) the date fixed for redemption.

Optional Redemption

We may redeem the 2022 Notes, the 2024 Notes, the 2026 Notes, the 2027 Notes, the 3.050% 2029 Notes 
and the 2042 Notes at our option, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at a redemption price equal to the 
greater of:

•

•

100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; or

the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon 
(not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption), 
discounted to the date of redemption on an annual basis (ACTUAL/ACTUAL (ICMA)) at the applicable 
Comparable Government Bond Rate (as defined below), plus 5 basis points in the case of the 2022 
Notes, plus 10 basis points in the case of the 2026 Notes, plus 15 basis points in the case of the 2024 
Notes, the 3.050% 2029 Notes and the 2042 Notes and plus 20 basis points in the case of the 2027 
Notes.

We may redeem the 0.000% 2025 Notes, the 0.875% 2025 Notes, the 1.375% 2029 Notes and the 2031 

Notes at our option, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, prior to the applicable Par Call Date at a 
redemption price equal to the greater of: 

•

•

100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; or 

the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon 
assuming that the Notes matured on the applicable Par Call Date (not including any portion of such 
payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption), discounted to the date of redemption on an 
annual basis (ACTUAL/ACTUAL (ICMA)) at the applicable Comparable Government Bond Rate (as 
defined below), plus 10 basis points in the case of the 0.000% 2025 Notes, plus 15 basis points in the 
case of the 0.875% 2025 Notes and the 2031 Notes, and 20 basis points in the case of the 2029 Notes. 

“Par Call Date” means (i) with respect to the 0.000% 2025 Notes, August 15, 2025 (three months prior to the 

maturity date of the 0.000% 2025 Notes), (ii) with respect to the 0.875% 2025 Notes, February 24, 2025 (three 
months prior to the maturity date of the 0.875% 2025 Notes), (iii) with respect to the 1.375% 2029 Notes, February 
24, 2029 (three months prior to the maturity date of 1.375% 2029 Notes) and (iv) with respect to the 2031 Notes, 
August 15, 2031 (three months prior to the maturity of the 2031 Notes).

If any of the 0.000% 2025 Notes, the 0.875% 2025 Notes, the 1.375% 2029 Notes or the 2031 Notes are 

redeemed on or after the applicable Par Call Date, the redemption price for such Notes will equal 100% of the 
principal amount of the Notes being redeemed. 

In each case upon redemption of the Notes, we will pay accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount 

being redeemed to, but excluding, the date of redemption.

7

Installments of interest on Notes being redeemed that are due and payable on interest payment dates falling 

on or prior to a redemption date shall be payable on the interest payment date to the holders as of the close of 
business on the relevant regular record date according to the Notes and the applicable Indenture.

“Comparable Government Bond” means, in relation to any Comparable Government Bond Rate calculation 

for the 2022 Notes, the 2024 Notes, the 2026 Notes and the 2027 Notes, at the discretion of an independent 
investment bank selected by us, a German government bond whose maturity is closest to the maturity of the Notes 
being redeemed, or if such independent investment bank in its discretion determines that such similar bond is not in 
issue, such other German government bond as such independent investment bank may, with the advice of three 
brokers of, and/or market makers in, German government bonds selected by us, determine to be appropriate for 
determining the Comparable Government Bond Rate.

“Comparable Government Bond” means, in relation to any Comparable Government Bond Rate calculation 
for the 3.050% 2029 Notes and the 2042 Notes, at the discretion of an independent investment bank selected by us, 
a United Kingdom government bond whose maturity is closest to the maturity of the Notes being redeemed, or if such 
independent investment bank in its discretion determines that such similar bond is not in issue, such other United 
Kingdom government bond as such independent investment bank may, with the advice of three brokers of, and/or 
market makers in, United Kingdom government bonds selected by us, determine to be appropriate for determining the 
Comparable Government Bond Rate. 

“Comparable Government Bond” means, in relation to any Comparable Government Bond Rate calculation 
for the 0.000% 2025 Notes, the 0.875% 2025 Notes, the 1.375% 2029 Notes and the 2031 Notes, at the discretion of 
an independent investment bank selected by us, a German government bond whose maturity is closest to the 
applicable Par Call Date of the Notes being redeemed, or if such independent investment bank in its discretion 
determines that such similar bond is not in issue, such other German government bond as such independent 
investment bank may, with the advice of three brokers of, and/or market makers in, German government bonds 
selected by us, determine to be appropriate for determining the Comparable Government Bond Rate.

“Comparable Government Bond Rate” means the price, expressed as a percentage (rounded to three 

decimal places, with 0.0005 being rounded upwards), at which the gross redemption yield on the Notes, if they were 
to be purchased at such price on the third business day prior to the date fixed for redemption, would be equal to the 
gross redemption yield on such business day of the Comparable Government Bond on the basis of the middle market 
price of the Comparable Government Bond prevailing at 11:00 a.m. (London time) on such business day as 
determined by an independent investment bank selected by us.

Covenants

The Indentures set forth limited covenants that apply to the Notes. However, these covenants do not, among 

other things:

•

•

•

limit the amount of indebtedness or lease obligations that may be incurred by us and our subsidiaries;

limit our ability or that of our subsidiaries to issue, assume or guarantee debt secured by liens; or

restrict us from paying dividends or making distributions on our capital stock or purchasing or redeeming 
our capital stock.

Consolidation, Merger and Sale of Assets

The Indentures provide that we may consolidate with or merge with or into any other person, and may sell, 
transfer, or lease or convey all or substantially all of our properties and assets to another person; provided that the 
following conditions are satisfied: 

•

we are the continuing entity, or the resulting, surviving or transferee person (the “Successor”) is a 
person (if such person is not a corporation, then the Successor will include a corporate co-issuer of the 
debt securities) organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof 
or the District of Columbia and the Successor (if not us) will expressly assume, by supplemental 
indenture, all of our obligations under the debt securities and the applicable Indenture and, for each 
security that by its terms provides for conversion, provide for the right to convert such security in 
accordance with its terms; 

8

•

•

immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no default or event of default under the applicable 
Indenture has occurred and is continuing; and 

in the case of the 2013 Indenture, the trustee receives from us an officers’ certificate and an opinion of 
counsel that the transaction and such supplemental indenture, as the case may be, complies with the 
applicable provisions of the 2013 Indenture.

If we consolidate or merge with or into any other person or sell, transfer, lease or convey all or substantially 

all of our properties and assets in accordance with the Indentures, the Successor will be substituted for us in the 
Indentures, with the same effect as if it had been an original party to the Indentures. As a result, the Successor may 
exercise our rights and powers under the Indentures, and we will be released from all our liabilities and obligations 
under the Indentures and under the debt securities.

For purposes of this covenant, “person” means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability 

company, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any 
agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity.

Events of Default

Each of the following events are defined in the Indentures as an “event of default” (whatever the reason for 

such event of default and whether or not it will be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or 
pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or 
governmental body) with respect to the debt securities of any series:

(1)  default in the payment of any installment of interest on any debt securities of such series for 30 days 

after becoming due;

(2)  default in the payment of principal of or premium, if any, on any debt securities of such series when it 

becomes due and payable at its stated maturity, upon optional redemption, upon declaration or 
otherwise;

(3)  default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or agreement of ours in the applicable Indenture 

with respect to the debt securities of such series (other than a covenant or agreement, a default in the 
performance of which or a breach of which is elsewhere in the applicable Indenture specifically dealt 
with or that has expressly been included in the applicable Indenture solely for the benefit of a series of 
debt securities other than such series), which continues for a period of 90 days after written notice to us 
by the trustee or to us and the trustee by the holders of, in the case of the 2013 Indenture, at least 25% 
in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding debt securities of that series, and in the case of the 
2018 Indenture, at least 33% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding debt securities of that 
series;

(4)  we, pursuant to or within the meaning of the Bankruptcy Law:

•

•

•

commence a voluntary case or proceeding;

consent to the entry of an order for relief against us in an involuntary case or proceeding;

consent to the appointment of a custodian of us or for all or substantially all of our property;

• make a general assignment for the benefit of our creditors;

•

•

•

file a petition in bankruptcy or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief;

consent to the filing of such petition or the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian; or

take any comparable action under any foreign laws relating to insolvency;

(5)  a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:

9

•

•

•

is for relief against us in an involuntary case, or adjudicates us insolvent or bankrupt;

appoints a custodian of us or for all or substantially all of our property; or

orders the winding-up or liquidation of us (or any similar relief is granted under any foreign laws);

and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 90 days (or, in the case of the 2018 
Indenture, 90 consecutive days); or

(6)  any other event of default provided with respect to debt securities of such series occurs.

“Bankruptcy Law” means Title 11, United States Code or any similar federal or state or foreign law for the 

relief of debtors. “Custodian” means any custodian, receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator or other similar official 
under any Bankruptcy Law.

If an event of default with respect to debt securities of any series (other than an event of default relating to 

certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency, or reorganization of us) occurs and is continuing, the trustee by notice to us, 
or the holders of, in the case of the 2013 Indenture, at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding 
debt securities of such series, and in the case of the 2018 Indenture, at least 33% in aggregate principal amount of 
the outstanding debt securities of such series, by notice to us and the trustee, may, and the trustee at the request of 
these holders will, declare the principal of and premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest on all the debt 
securities of such series to be due and payable. Upon such a declaration, such principal, premium and accrued and 
unpaid interest will be due and payable immediately. If an event of default relating to certain events of bankruptcy, 
insolvency, or reorganization of us occurs and is continuing, the principal of and premium, if any, and accrued and 
unpaid interest on the debt securities of such series will become and be immediately due and payable without any 
declaration or other act on the part of the trustee or any holders.

The holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding debt securities of 
any series may rescind a declaration of acceleration and its consequences, if we have deposited certain sums with 
the trustee and all events of default with respect to the debt securities of such series, other than the non-payment of 
the principal or interest which have become due solely by such acceleration, have been cured or waived, as provided 
in the Indentures.

An event of default for a particular series of debt securities does not necessarily constitute an event of 

default for any other series of debt securities issued under the Indentures.

We are required to furnish the trustee annually within 120 days after the end of our fiscal year a statement 

by one of our officers to the effect that, to the best knowledge of such officer, we are not in default in the fulfillment of 
any of our obligations under the applicable Indenture or, if there has been a default in the fulfillment of any such 
obligation, specifying each such default and the nature and status thereof.

No holder of any debt securities of any series will have any right to institute any judicial or other proceeding 

with respect to the applicable Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy 
unless:

(1)  an event of default has occurred and is continuing and such holder has given the trustee prior written 

notice of such continuing event of default with respect to the debt securities of such series;

(2)  in the case of the 2013 Indenture, the holders of not less than 25% of the aggregate principal amount of 
the outstanding debt securities of such series, and in the case of the 2018 Indenture, the holders of not 
less than 33% of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding debt securities of such series have 
requested the trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such event of default;

(3)  the trustee has been offered indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it against its costs, expenses and 

liabilities in complying with such request;

(4)  the trustee has failed to institute proceedings 60 days after the receipt of such notice, request and offer 

of indemnity; and

10

(5)  no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given for 60 days by the holders of a 

majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding debt securities of such series.

The holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt securities of a series will have 

the right, subject to certain limitations, to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any 
remedy available to the trustee with respect to the debt securities of that series or exercising any trust or power 
conferred to the trustee, and to waive certain defaults. Each of the Indentures provides that if an event of default 
occurs and is continuing, the trustee will exercise such of its rights and powers under such Indenture, and use the 
same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in 
the conduct of such person’s own affairs. Subject to such provisions, the trustee will be under no obligation to 
exercise any of its rights or powers under the applicable Indenture at the request of any of the holders of the debt 
securities of a series unless they will have offered to the trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to the trustee 
against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the holder of any debt security will have an absolute and unconditional right 
to receive payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on that debt security on or after the due dates 
expressed in that debt security and to institute suit for the enforcement of payment.

Modification and Waivers

Modification and amendments of the Indentures and the Notes may be made by us and the trustee with the 

consent of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding series of Notes 
affected thereby; provided, however, that no such modification or amendment may, without the consent of the holder 
of each outstanding Note of that series affected thereby:

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

change the stated maturity of the principal of, or installment of interest on, any Note;

reduce the principal amount of any Note or reduce the amount of the principal of any Note which would 
be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof or reduce the rate of 
interest on any Note;

reduce any premium payable on the redemption of any Note or change the date on which any Note may 
or must be redeemed (in the case of the 2018 Indenture, it being understood that a change to any 
notice requirement with respect to such date shall not be deemed to be a change of such date);

change the coin or currency in which the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Note is 
payable;

impair the right of any holder to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on or after the stated 
maturity of any Note (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the redemption date);

reduce the percentage in principal amount of the outstanding Notes, the consent of whose holders is 
required in order to take certain actions;

reduce the requirements for quorum or voting by holders of Notes in the applicable Indenture or the 
Note;

• modify any of the provisions in the applicable Indenture regarding the waiver of past defaults and the 

waiver of certain covenants by the holders of Notes except to increase any percentage vote required or 
to provide that certain other provisions of the applicable Indenture cannot be modified or waived without 
the consent of the holder of each Notes affected thereby;

• make any change that adversely affects the right to convert or exchange any debt security or decreases 

the conversion or exchange rate or increases the conversion price of any convertible or exchangeable 
debt security, unless such decrease or increase is permitted by the terms of the debt securities; or

• modify any of the above provisions.

We and the trustee may, without the consent of any holders, modify or amend the terms of the Indentures 

and any series of Notes with respect to the following:

11

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

to add to our covenants for the benefit of holders of all or any series of the Notes or to surrender any 
right or power conferred upon us;

to evidence the succession of another person to, and the assumption by the successor of our 
covenants, agreements and obligations under, the applicable Indenture pursuant to the covenant 
described above under the caption “Covenants—Consolidation, Merger and Sale of Assets”;

to add any additional events of default for the benefit of holders of all or any series of the Notes;

to add one or more guarantees, and in the case of the 2018 Indenture, co-obligors, for the benefit of 
holders of the Notes;

to secure the Notes pursuant to the covenants of the Indenture;

to add or appoint a successor or separate trustee or other agent;

to provide for the issuance of additional debt securities of any series;

to establish the form or terms of the debt securities of any series as permitted by the Indenture;

to comply with the rules of any applicable securities depository;

to provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes;

in the case of the 2013 Indenture, to add to, change or eliminate any of the provisions of the 2013 
Indenture in respect of one or more series of debt securities; provided that any such addition, change or 
elimination (a) shall neither (1) apply to any debt security of any series created prior to the execution of 
such supplemental indenture and entitled to the benefit of such provision nor (2) modify the rights of the 
holder of any such debt security with respect to such provision or (b) shall become effective only when 
there is no debt security described in clause (a)(1) outstanding;

in the case of the 2018 Indenture, to add to, change or eliminate any of the provisions of the 2018 
Indenture in respect of one or more series of debt securities; provided that any such addition, change or 
elimination shall become effective only when there is no outstanding security of any series created prior 
to the execution of such supplemental indenture that is entitled to the benefit of such provision and as to 
which such supplemental indenture would apply;

to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency;

to change any other provision; provided that the change does not adversely affect the interests of the 
holders of debt securities of, in the case of the 2013 Indenture any series, and in the case of the 2018 
Indenture, any outstanding series, in any material respect;

to supplement any of the provisions of the applicable Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to 
permit or facilitate the defeasance and discharge of any series of Notes pursuant to the Indenture; 
provided that any such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the holders of Notes of such 
series or any other series of debt securities in any material respect;

to comply with the rules or regulations of any securities exchange or automated quotation system on 
which any of the Notes may be listed or traded; and

to add to, change or eliminate any of the provisions of the applicable Indenture as shall be necessary or 
desirable in accordance with any amendments to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and in 
the case of the 2013 Indenture, provided that such action does not adversely affect the rights or 
interests of any holder of debt securities in any material respect.

The holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes of any series may, 

on behalf of the holders of all Notes of that series, waive compliance by us with certain restrictive provisions of the 
Indentures. The holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes of a series 

12

may, on behalf of the holders of all Notes of that series, waive any past default and its consequences under the 
applicable Indenture with respect to the Notes of that series, except a default (1) in the payment of principal or 
premium, if any, or interest on Notes of that series or (2) in respect of a covenant or provision of the applicable 
Indenture that cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the holder of each Note of that series. Upon any 
such waiver, such default will cease to exist, and any event of default arising therefrom will be deemed to have been 
cured, for every purpose of the Indenture; however, no such waiver will extend to any subsequent or other default or 
event of default or impair any rights consequent thereon.

Discharge, Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance

We may discharge certain obligations to holders of the Notes of a series that have not already been 
delivered to the trustee for cancellation and that either have become due and payable or will become due and 
payable within one year (or scheduled for redemption within one year) by depositing with the trustee, in trust, funds in 
U.S. dollars in an amount sufficient to pay the entire indebtedness including, but not limited to, the principal and 
premium, if any, and interest to the date of such deposit (if due and payable) or to the maturity thereof or the 
redemption date of the Notes of that series, as the case may be. We may direct the trustee to invest such funds in 
U.S. Treasury securities with a maturity of one year or less or in a money market fund that invests solely in short-term 
U.S. Treasury securities.

The Indentures provide that we may elect either (1) to defease and be discharged from any and all 

obligations with respect to the Notes of a series (except for, among other things, obligations to register the transfer or 
exchange of the Notes, to replace temporary or mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Notes, to maintain an office or 
agency with respect to the Notes and to hold moneys for payment in trust) (“legal defeasance”) or (2) to be released 
from our obligations to comply with the restrictive covenants under the applicable Indenture, and any omission to 
comply with such obligations will not constitute a default or an event of default with respect to the Notes of a series 
and clauses (3) and (6) under the caption “Events of Default” above will no longer be applied (“covenant 
defeasance”). Legal defeasance or covenant defeasance, as the case may be, will be conditioned upon, among other 
things, the irrevocable deposit by us with the trustee, in trust, of an amount in U.S. dollars, or U.S. government 
obligations (as such term is modified below), or both, applicable to the Notes of that series which through the 
scheduled payment of principal and interest in accordance with their terms will provide money in an amount sufficient 
to pay the principal or premium, if any, and interest on the Notes on the scheduled due dates therefor.

If we effect covenant defeasance with respect to the Notes of any series, the amount in U.S. dollars, or U.S. 
government obligations (as such term is modified below), or both, on deposit with the trustee will be sufficient, in the 
opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent accountants, to pay amounts due on the Notes of that series at 
the time of the stated maturity but may not be sufficient to pay amounts due on the Notes of that series at the time of 
the acceleration resulting from such event of default. However, we would remain liable to make payment of such 
amounts due at the time of acceleration.

With respect to the 2022 Notes, the 2024 Notes, the 0.000% 2025 Notes, the 0.875% 2025 Notes, the 2026 
Notes, the 2027 Notes, the 1.375% 2029 Notes and the 2031 Notes, the term “U.S. government obligations” shall 
instead mean (x) any security that is (i) a direct obligation of the German government or (ii) an obligation of a person 
controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the German government the payment of 
which is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the German government or the central bank of the German 
government, which, in either case (x)(i) or (ii), is not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and (y) 
certificates, depositary receipts or other instruments which evidence a direct ownership interest in obligations 
described in clause (x)(i) or (x)(ii) above or in any specific principal or interest payments due in respect thereof. 

With respect to the 3.050% 2029 Notes and the 2042 Notes, the term “U.S. government obligations” shall 

instead mean (x) any security that is (i) a direct obligation of the United Kingdom government or (ii) an obligation of a 
person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United Kingdom government the 
payment of which is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the United Kingdom government or the central bank of 
the United Kingdom government, which, in either case (x)(i) or (ii), is not callable or redeemable at the option of the 
issuer thereof, and (y) certificates, depositary receipts or other instruments which evidence a direct ownership interest 
in obligations described in clause (x)(i) or (x)(ii) above or in any specific principal or interest payments due in respect 
thereof. 

We will be required to deliver to the trustee an opinion of counsel that the deposit and related defeasance 

will not cause the holders and beneficial owners of the Notes of that series to recognize income, gain or loss for 

13

federal income tax purposes. If we elect legal defeasance, that opinion of counsel must be based upon a ruling from 
the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or a change in law to that effect.

We may exercise our legal defeasance option notwithstanding our prior exercise of our covenant 

defeasance option.

Book-Entry and Settlement

The Notes were issued in book-entry form and are represented by global notes deposited with, or on behalf 

of, a common depositary on behalf of Euroclear and Clearstream, and are registered in the name of the common 
depositary or its nominee. Except as described herein, certificated notes will not be issued in exchange for beneficial 
interests in the global notes.

Certificated Notes

Subject to certain conditions, the Notes represented by the global notes are exchangeable for certificated 

notes in definitive form of like tenor, in minimum denominations of €100,000 principal amount and integral multiples of 
€1,000 in excess thereof in the case of the 2022 Notes, the 2024 Notes, the 0.000% 2025 Notes, the 0.875% 2025 
Notes, the 2026 Notes, the 2027 Notes, the 1.375% 2029 Notes and the 2031 Notes, and in minimum denominations 
of £100,000 principal amount and integral multiples of £1,000 in excess thereof in the case of the 3.050% 2029 Notes 
and the 2042 Notes, if: 

1.

the common depositary notifies us that it is unwilling or unable to continue as depositary or if the 
common depositary ceases to be eligible under the applicable Indenture and we do not appoint a 
successor depository within 90 days;

2.  we determine that the Notes will no longer be represented by global securities and execute and deliver 

to the trustee an order to that effect; or

3.  an event of default with respect to the Notes will have occurred and be continuing. 

Any Note that is exchangeable as above is exchangeable for certificated notes issuable in authorized 
denominations and registered in such names as the common depositary shall direct. Subject to the foregoing, a 
global note is not exchangeable, except for a global note of the same aggregate denomination to be registered in the 
name of the common depositary or its nominee. 

The Trustee for the Notes

The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. is the trustee under the Indentures. We have 

commercial deposits and custodial arrangements with The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. and its 
affiliates (“BNYM”). We may enter into similar or other banking relationships with BNYM in the future in the normal 
course of business. In addition, BNYM acts as trustee and as paying agent with respect to other debt securities 
issued by us, and may do so for future issuances of debt securities by us as well.

14

Exhibit 10.16

APPLE INC.

2014 EMPLOYEE STOCK PLAN

RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT

Name:   

 

 

Employee ID: 

Grant Number: 

No. of Units Subject to Award: 

Award Date: 

 

 

 

 

NOTICE OF GRANT

(the “Participant”)

(the “Award Date”)

Vesting Commencement Date: 

(the “Vesting Commencement Date”)

Vesting Schedule: 

This restricted stock unit award (the “Award”) is granted under and governed by the terms and 
conditions of the Apple Inc. 2014 Employee Stock Plan and the Terms and Conditions of Restricted Stock 
Unit Award, which are incorporated herein by reference.

You do not have to accept the Award.  If you wish to decline your Award, you should promptly 
notify Apple Inc.’s Stock Plan Group of your decision at stock@apple.com.  If you do not provide such 
notification by the last day of the calendar month prior to the first Vesting Date, you will be deemed to 
have accepted your Award on the terms and conditions set forth herein.

APPLE INC.

2014 EMPLOYEE STOCK PLAN

RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD

1.

General.  These Terms and Conditions of Restricted Stock Unit Award (these “Terms”) 
apply  to  a  particular  restricted  stock  unit  award  (the  “Award”)  granted  by  Apple  Inc.,  a  California 
corporation  (the  “Company”),  and  are  incorporated  by  reference  in  the  Notice  of  Grant  (the  “Grant 
Notice”) corresponding to that particular grant.  The recipient of the Award identified in the Grant Notice is 
referred to as the “Participant.”  The effective date of grant of the Award as set forth in the Grant Notice 
is referred to as the “Award Date.”  The Award was granted under and is subject to the provisions of the 
Apple  Inc.  2014  Employee  Stock  Plan  (the  “Plan”).    Capitalized  terms  are  defined  in  the  Plan  if  not 
defined herein.  The Award is discretionary and has been granted to the Participant in addition to, and not 
in lieu of, any other form of compensation otherwise payable or to be paid to the Participant.  The Grant 
Notice and these Terms are collectively referred to as the “Award Agreement” applicable to the Award.

2.

Stock  Units.    As  used  herein,  the  term  “Stock  Unit”  shall  mean  a  non-voting  unit  of 
measurement which is deemed for bookkeeping purposes to be equivalent to one outstanding share of 
the Company’s Common Stock (“Share”) solely for purposes of the Plan and this Award Agreement.  The 
Stock Units shall be used solely as a device for the determination of the payment to eventually be made 
to the Participant if such Stock Units vest pursuant to this Award Agreement.  The Stock Units shall not be 
treated as property or as a trust fund of any kind.

3.

Vesting.    Subject  to  Sections  4  and  8  below,  the  Award  shall  vest  and  become 
nonforfeitable as set forth in the Grant Notice.  (Each vesting date set forth in the Grant Notice is referred 
to herein as a “Vesting Date.”)

4.

Continuance  of  Employment.    Except  as  provided  in  this  Section  4  and  in  Section  8 
below,  vesting  of  the  Award  requires  continued  active  employment  or  service  through  each  applicable 
Vesting Date as a condition to the vesting of the applicable installment of the Award and the rights and 
benefits under this Award Agreement.  Employment or service for only a portion of the period between the 
Vesting Commencement Date and the first Vesting Date or between subsequent Vesting Dates, even if a 
substantial portion, will not entitle the Participant to any proportionate vesting of the Award.  For purposes 
of this Award Agreement, active service shall include (a) the duration of an approved leave of absence 
(other than a personal leave of absence) and (b) the first thirty (30) days of an approved personal leave of 
absence,  in  each  case  as  approved  by  the  Company,  in  its  sole  discretion.    The  vesting  of  the  Award 
shall be tolled beginning on the thirty-first (31st) day of a personal leave of absence.

Nothing  contained  in  this  Award  Agreement  or  the  Plan  constitutes  an  employment  or  service 
commitment  by  the  Company,  affects  the  Participant’s  status  as  an  employee  at  will  who  is  subject  to 
termination  with  or  without  cause,  confers  upon  the  Participant  any  right  to  remain  employed  by  or  in 
service  to  the  Company  or  any  Subsidiary,  interferes  in  any  way  with  the  right  of  the  Company  or  any 
Subsidiary at any time to terminate such employment or service, or affects the right of the Company or 
any Subsidiary to increase or decrease the Participant’s other compensation or benefits.  Nothing in this 
Section  4,  however,  is  intended  to  adversely  affect  any  independent  contractual  right  of  the  Participant 
without his or her consent thereto. 

1

5.

Dividend and Voting Rights.

(a)

Limitations on Rights Associated with Stock Units.  The Participant shall have 
no rights as a shareholder of the Company, no dividend rights (except as expressly provided in Section 
5(b) with respect to Dividend Equivalent Rights) and no voting rights, with respect to the Stock Units or 
any Shares underlying or issuable in respect of such Stock Units until such Shares are actually issued to 
and  held  of  record  by  the  Participant.    No  adjustments  will  be  made  for  dividends  or  other  rights  of  a 
holder  for  which  the  record  date  is  prior  to  the  date  of  issuance  of  the  stock  certificate  or  book  entry 
evidencing such Shares.

(b) Dividend  Equivalent  Rights  Distributions.    As  of  any  date  that  the  Company 
pays  an  ordinary  cash  dividend  on  its  Shares,  the  Company  shall  credit  the  Participant  with  a  dollar 
amount  equal  to  (i)  the  per  share  cash  dividend  paid  by  the  Company  on  its  Shares  on  such  date, 
multiplied by (ii) the total number of Stock Units (with such total number adjusted pursuant to Section 11 
of  the  Plan)  subject  to  the  Award  that  are  outstanding  immediately  prior  to  the  record  date  for  that 
dividend  (a  “Dividend  Equivalent  Right”).    Any  Dividend  Equivalent  Rights  credited  pursuant  to  the 
foregoing provisions of this Section 5(b) shall be subject to the same vesting, payment and other terms, 
conditions  and  restrictions  as  the  original  Stock  Units  to  which  they  relate,  including  the  obligation  to 
satisfy  the  Tax-Related  Items;  provided,  however,  that  the  amount  of  any  vested  Dividend  Equivalent 
Rights shall be paid in cash.  No crediting of Dividend Equivalent Rights shall be made pursuant to this 
Section 5(b) with respect to any Stock Units which, immediately prior to the record date for that dividend, 
have either been paid pursuant to Section 7 or terminated pursuant to Section 8.

6.

Restrictions on Transfer.    Except  as  provided  in  Section  4(c)  of  the  Plan,  the  Award, 
the Dividend Equivalent Rights and any interest therein or amount or Shares payable in respect thereof 
shall  not  be  sold,  assigned,  transferred,  pledged  or  otherwise  disposed  of,  alienated  or  encumbered, 
either voluntarily or involuntarily.

7.

Timing  and  Manner  of  Payment  of  Stock  Units.    On  or  as  soon  as  administratively 
practical following each vesting event pursuant to Section 3 or Section 8 (and in all events not later than 
two and one-half (2 ½) months after such vesting event), the Company shall deliver to the Participant a 
number  of  Shares  (either  by  delivering  one  or  more  certificates  for  such  Shares  or  by  entering  such 
Shares in book entry form, as determined by the Company in its discretion) equal to the number of Stock 
Units subject to the Award that vest on the applicable Vesting Date, less Tax-Related Items (as defined in 
Section 11 below), unless such Stock Units terminate prior to the given Vesting Date pursuant to Section 
8.  The Company’s obligation to deliver Shares or otherwise make payment with respect to vested Stock 
Units is subject to the condition precedent that the Participant or other person entitled under the Plan to 
receive any Shares with respect to the vested Stock Units deliver to the Company any representations or 
other  documents  or  assurances  required  pursuant  to  Section  13(c)  of  the  Plan.    The  Participant  shall 
have  no  further  rights  with  respect  to  any  Stock  Units  that  are  paid  or  that  terminate  pursuant  to 
Section 8.

8.

Effect  of  Termination  of  Service.    Except  as  expressly  provided  in  Section  4  or  this 
Section 8, the Participant’s Stock Units (as well as the related Dividend Equivalent Rights) shall terminate 
to the extent such Stock Units have not become vested prior to the Participant’s Termination of Service, 
meaning the first date the Participant is no longer employed by or providing services to the Company or 
one of its Subsidiaries (the “Severance Date”), regardless of the reason for the Participant’s Termination 
of  Service,  whether  with  or  without  cause,  voluntarily  or  involuntarily,  or  whether  the  Participant  was 
employed or provided services for a portion of the vesting period prior to a Vesting Date.  Notwithstanding 
the foregoing, in the event the Participant’s Termination of Service is due to the Participant’s Disability at 
a time when Stock Units remain unvested under the Award, (a) the Award shall vest with respect to the 
number of Stock Units determined by multiplying (i) the number of then-outstanding and unvested Stock 
Units as well as the related Dividend Equivalent Rights subject to the Award that would have otherwise 
vested  pursuant  to  Section  3  on  the  next  Vesting  Date  following  the  Severance  Date  but  for  such 

2

Termination of Service, by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of days that have 
elapsed between the Vesting Date that immediately preceded the Severance Date (or, in the case of a 
Termination  of  Service  prior  to  the  initial  Vesting  Date,  the  Vesting  Commencement  Date)  and  the 
Severance Date, and the denominator of which shall be the number of days between the Vesting Date 
that immediately preceded the Severance Date (or, in the case of a Termination of Service prior to the 
initial  Vesting  Date,  the  Vesting  Commencement  Date)  and  the  next  Vesting  Date  following  the 
Severance Date that would have occurred but for such Termination of Service; and (b) any Stock Units 
(as well as the related Dividend Equivalent Rights) that are not vested after giving effect to the foregoing 
clause (a) shall terminate on the Severance Date.  Further, in the event the Participant’s Termination of 
Service  is  due  to  the  Participant’s  death,  any  unvested  Stock  Units  shall  be  fully  vested  as  of  the 
Severance  Date,  and  any  Dividend  Equivalent  Rights  credited  to  the  Participant  shall  be  paid.    If  any 
unvested  Stock  Units  are  terminated  hereunder,  such  Stock  Units  (as  well  as  the  related  Dividend 
Equivalent  Rights)  shall  automatically  terminate  and  be  cancelled  as  of  the  applicable  Severance  Date 
without payment of any consideration by the Company and without any other action by the Participant or 
the Participant’s personal representative, as the case may be.

9.

Recoupment.  Notwithstanding any other provision herein, the Award and any Shares or 
other amount or property that may be issued, delivered or paid in respect of the Award, as well as any 
consideration  that  may  be  received  in  respect  of  a  sale  or  other  disposition  of  any  such  Shares  or 
property,  shall  be  subject  to  any  recoupment,  “clawback”  or  similar  provisions  of  applicable  law.    In 
addition,  the  Company  may  require  the  Participant  to  deliver  or  otherwise  repay  to  the  Company  the 
Award and any Shares or other amount or property that may be issued, delivered or paid in respect of the 
Award, as well as any consideration that may be received in respect of a sale or other disposition of any 
such  Shares  or  property,  if  the  Company  reasonably  determines  that  one  or  more  of  the  following  has 
occurred:

(a)

during the period of the Participant’s employment or service with the Company or 
any of its Subsidiaries (the “Employment Period”), the Participant has committed a felony (under 
the  laws  of  the  United  States  or  any  relevant  state,  or  a  similar  crime  or  offense  under  the 
applicable laws of any relevant foreign jurisdiction);

(b)

during  the  Employment  Period  or  at  any  time  thereafter,  the  Participant  has 
committed  or  engaged  in  a  breach  of  confidentiality,  or  an  unauthorized  disclosure  or  use  of 
inside information, customer lists, trade secrets or other confidential information of the Company 
or any of its Subsidiaries;

(c)

during  the  Employment  Period  or  at  any  time  thereafter,  the  Participant  has 
committed  or  engaged  in  an  act  of  theft,  embezzlement  or  fraud,  or  materially  breached  any 
agreement to which the Participant is a party with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.

For purposes of the foregoing, the Participant expressly and explicitly authorizes the Company to 
issue instructions, on the Participant’s behalf, to any brokerage firm or third party administrator holding 
the Participant’s Shares and other amounts acquired under the Plan to re-convey, transfer, or otherwise 
return such Shares and other amounts to the Company. This Section 9 is not the Company’s exclusive 
remedy with respect to such matters.

10.

Adjustments Upon Specified Events.  Upon the occurrence of certain events relating to 
the  Company’s  stock  contemplated  by  Section  11  of  the  Plan  (including,  without  limitation,  an 
extraordinary cash dividend on such stock), the Committee shall make adjustments in accordance with 
such section in the number of Stock Units then outstanding and the number and kind of securities that 
may be issued in respect of the Award.  No such adjustment shall be made with respect to any ordinary 
cash dividend for which Dividend Equivalent Rights are credited pursuant to Section 5(b).

3

11.

Responsibility for Taxes.  The Participant acknowledges that, regardless of any action 
the  Company  or  the  Participant’s  employer  (“Employer”)  take  with  respect  to  any  or  all  income  tax 
(including  U.S.  federal,  state  and  local  tax  or  non-U.S.  tax),  social  insurance,  payroll  tax,  payment  on 
account  or  other  tax-related  items  related  to  the  Participant’s  participation  in  the  Plan  and  legally 
applicable to the Participant or deemed by the Company or the Employer to be an appropriate charge to 
the  Participant  even  if  technically  due  by  the  Company  or  the  Employer  (“Tax-Related  Items”),  the 
ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items is and remains the Participant’s responsibility and may exceed 
the  amount,  if  any,  actually  withheld  by  the  Company  or  the  Employer.    The  Participant  further 
acknowledges that the Company and the Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding 
the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Award, including the grant of 
the Stock Units, the vesting of the Stock Units, the delivery of Shares, the subsequent sale of any Shares 
acquired at vesting, and the receipt of any dividends or Dividend Equivalent Rights; and (ii) do not commit 
to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Award to reduce or 
eliminate the Participant’s liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result.  Further, if 
the Participant is or becomes subject to tax in more than one jurisdiction, the Participant acknowledges 
that  the  Company  or  the  Employer  (or  former  employer,  as  applicable)  may  be  required  to  withhold  or 
account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.

Prior to the relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, the Participant shall pay or 
make arrangements satisfactory to the Company or the Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items.  In this 
regard,  the  Participant  authorizes  the  Company  or  the  Employer,  or  their  respective  agents,  at  their 
discretion  and  pursuant  to  such  procedures  as  they  may  specify  from  time  to  time,  to  satisfy  any 
applicable  withholding  obligations  with  regard  to  all  Tax-Related  Items  by  one  or  a  combination  of  the 
following:

(a) 

withholding  from  any  wages  or  other  cash  compensation  payable  to  the 

Participant by the Company or the Employer;

(b) 

withholding  otherwise  deliverable  Shares  and  from  otherwise  payable  Dividend 

Equivalent Rights to be issued or paid upon vesting/settlement of the Award;

(c)  

arranging for the sale of Shares otherwise deliverable to the Participant (on the 
Participant’s  behalf  and  at  the  Participant’s  direction  pursuant  to  this  authorization),  including 
selling Shares as part of a block trade with other Participants in the Plan; or

(d) 

withholding  from  the  proceeds  of  the  sale  of  Shares  acquired  upon  vesting/

settlement of the Award.

Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  the  Participant  is  an  officer  of  the  Company  who  is  subject  to 
Section 16 of the Exchange Act, then the Company must satisfy any withholding obligations arising upon 
the  occurrence  of  a  taxable  or  tax  withholding  event,  as  applicable,  by  withholding  Shares  otherwise 
deliverable or an amount otherwise payable upon settlement of Dividend Equivalent Rights pursuant to 
method  (b),  unless  the  Board  or  the  Committee  determines  in  its  discretion  to  satisfy  the  obligation  for 
Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of methods (a), (b), (c), and (d) above.

 
The  Company  may  withhold  or  account  for  Tax-Related  Items  by  considering  statutory 
withholding amounts or other withholding rates, including maximum rates applicable in the Participant’s 
jurisdiction(s).  If the maximum rate is used, any over-withheld amount may be refunded to the Participant 
in cash by the Company or Employer (with no entitlement to the Share equivalent) or if not refunded, the 
Participant  may  seek  a  refund  from  the  local  tax  authorities.    In  the  event  of  under-withholding,  the 
Participant may be required to pay additional Tax-Related Items directly to the applicable tax authority or 
to the Company or Employer.  If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding a number 
of Shares as described herein, for tax purposes, the Participant is deemed to have been issued the full 
number  of  Shares  subject  to  the  vested  Stock  Units,  notwithstanding  that  a  number  of  the  Shares  are 

4

held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items.  The Company may refuse to issue or 
deliver  to  the  Participant  any  Shares  or  the  proceeds  of  the  sale  of  Shares  if  the  Participant  fails  to 
comply with the Participant’s obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items.

12.

Electronic Delivery and Acceptance.  The Company may, in its sole discretion, deliver 
any  documents  related  to  the  Award  by  electronic  means  or  request  the  Participant’s  consent  to 
participate  in  the  Plan  by  electronic  means.    The  Participant  hereby  consents  to  receive  all  applicable 
documentation by electronic delivery and to participate in the Plan through an on-line or voice activated 
system established and maintained by the Company or a third party vendor designated by the Company.

13.

Data Privacy.  By participating in the Plan, the Participant acknowledges and consents to 
the  collection,  use,  processing  and  transfer  of  personal  data  as  described  in  this  Section  13.    The 
Company, its related entities, and the Employer hold certain personal information about the Participant, 
including  the  Participant’s  name,  home  address  and  telephone  number,  email  address,  date  of  birth, 
social security number or other employee identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any Shares or 
directorships  held  in  the  Company,  details  of  all  Stock  Units  or  any  other  entitlement  to  Shares  or 
equivalent  benefits  awarded,  canceled,  purchased,  vested,  unvested  or  outstanding  in  the  Participant’s 
favor,  for  the  purpose  of  managing  and  administering  the  Plan  (“Data”).    The  Company  and  its  related 
entities  may  transfer  Data  amongst  themselves  as  necessary  for  the  purpose  of  implementation, 
administration, and management of the Participant’s participation in the Plan, and the Company and its 
related  entities  may  each  further  transfer  Data  to  any  third  parties  assisting  the  Company  or  any  such 
related  entity  in  the  implementation,  administration,  and  management  of  the  Plan.    The  Participant 
acknowledges that the transferors and transferees of such Data may be located anywhere in the world 
and hereby authorizes each of them to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or 
other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering, and managing the Participant’s participation 
in the Plan, including any transfer of such Data as may be required for the administration of the Plan and 
the subsequent holding of Shares on the Participant’s behalf to a broker or to other third party with whom 
the Participant may elect to deposit any Shares acquired under the Plan (whether pursuant to the Award 
or otherwise).

14.

Notices.    Any  notice  to  be  given  under  the  terms  of  this  Award  Agreement  shall  be  in 
writing and addressed to the Company at its principal office to the attention of the Secretary, and to the 
Participant at the Participant’s last address reflected on the Company’s records, or at such other address 
as either party may hereafter designate in writing to the other.  Any such notice shall be given only when 
received, but if the Participant is no longer an employee of the Company, shall be deemed to have been 
duly  given  by  the  Company  when  enclosed  in  a  properly  sealed  envelope  addressed  as  aforesaid, 
registered or certified, and deposited (postage and registry or certification fee prepaid) in a post office or 
branch post office regularly maintained by the United States Government.

15.

Plan.    The  Award  and  all  rights  of  the  Participant  under  this  Award  Agreement  are 
subject to the terms and conditions of the provisions of the Plan, incorporated herein by reference.  The 
Participant  agrees  to  be  bound  by  the  terms  of  the  Plan  and  this  Award  Agreement.    The  Participant 
acknowledges  having  read  and  understood  the  Plan,  the  Prospectus  for  the  Plan,  and  this  Award 
Agreement.  Unless otherwise expressly provided in other sections of this Award Agreement, provisions 
of  the  Plan  that  confer  discretionary  authority  on  the  Board  or  the  Committee  do  not  (and  shall  not  be 
deemed  to)  create  any  rights  in  the  Participant  unless  such  rights  are  expressly  set  forth  herein  or  are 
otherwise in the sole discretion of the Board or the Committee so conferred by appropriate action of the 
Board or the Committee under the Plan after the date hereof.

16.

Entire Agreement.    This  Award  Agreement  and  the  Plan  together  constitute  the  entire 
agreement and supersede all prior understandings and agreements, written or oral, of the parties hereto 
with  respect  to  the  subject  matter  hereof.    The  Plan  and  this  Award  Agreement  may  be  amended 
pursuant to Section 15 of the Plan.  Such amendment must be in writing and signed by the Company.  
The Company may, however, unilaterally waive any provision hereof in writing to the extent such waiver 

5

does not adversely affect the interests of the Participant hereunder, but no such waiver shall operate as 
or  be  construed  to  be  a  subsequent  waiver  of  the  same  provision  or  a  waiver  of  any  other  provision 
hereof.

17.

Limitation  on  the  Participant’s  Rights.    Participation  in  the  Plan  confers  no  rights  or 
interests other than as herein provided.  This Award Agreement creates only a contractual obligation on 
the part of the Company as to amounts payable and shall not be construed as creating a trust.  Neither 
the Plan nor any underlying program, in and of itself, has any assets.  The Participant shall have only the 
rights  of  a  general  unsecured  creditor  of  the  Company  with  respect  to  amounts  credited  and  benefits 
payable, if any, with respect to the Stock Units, and rights no greater than the right to receive the Shares 
as a general unsecured creditor with respect to Stock Units, as and when payable hereunder.

18.

Section Headings.  The section headings of this Award Agreement are for convenience 

of reference only and shall not be deemed to alter or affect any provision hereof.

19.

Governing  Law.    This  Award  Agreement  shall  be  governed  by  and  construed  and 
enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to conflict of law principles 
thereunder.

20.

Choice of Venue.  For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises directly or indirectly 
from the relationship of the parties evidenced by this grant or this Award Agreement, the parties hereby 
submit  to  the  exclusive  jurisdiction  of  the  State  of  California  and  agree  that  such  litigation  shall  be 
conducted  only  in  the  courts  of  Santa  Clara  County,  California,  or  the  federal  courts  for  the  Northern 
District of California, and no other courts, where this grant is made or to be performed.

21.

Construction.  It is intended that the terms of the Award will not result in the imposition 
of any tax liability pursuant to Section 409A of the Code.  This Award Agreement shall be construed and 
interpreted with that intent.

22.

Severability.  The provisions of this Award Agreement are severable and if any one of 
more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining 
provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable.

23.

Imposition of Other Requirements.  The Company reserves the right to impose other 
requirements on the Participant’s participation in the Plan, on the Stock Units and on any Shares acquired 
under  the  Plan,  to  the  extent  the  Company  determines  it  is  necessary  or  advisable  for  legal  or 
administrative reasons, and to require the Participant to sign any additional agreements or undertakings 
that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.

6

Exhibit 10.17

APPLE INC.

2014 EMPLOYEE STOCK PLAN

RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT

PERFORMANCE AWARD

NOTICE OF GRANT

(the “Participant”)

Name: 

Employee ID: 

Grant Number: 

Target No. of Units
Subject to Award: 

 

 

Award Date: 

(the “Award Date”) 

Vesting Schedule: 

Performance Period: 

This restricted stock unit award (the “Award”) is granted under and governed by the terms and 
conditions of the Apple Inc. 2014 Employee Stock Plan and the Terms and Conditions of Restricted Stock 
Unit  Award  -  Performance  Award  (including  Exhibit  A  thereto),  which  are  incorporated  herein  by 
reference.

You do not have to accept the Award.  If you wish to decline your Award, you should promptly 
notify Apple Inc.’s Stock Plan Group of your decision at stock@apple.com.  If you do not provide such 
notification by the last day of the calendar month prior to the Vesting Date, you will be deemed to have 
accepted your Award on the terms and conditions set forth herein.

APPLE INC.

2014 EMPLOYEE STOCK PLAN

RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD

PERFORMANCE AWARD

1.

General.    These  Terms  and  Conditions  of  Restricted  Stock  Unit  Award  -  Performance 
Award (these “Terms”) apply to a particular restricted stock unit award (the “Award”) granted by Apple 
Inc., a California corporation (the “Company”), and are incorporated by reference in the Notice of Grant 
(the “Grant Notice”) corresponding to that particular grant.  The recipient of the Award identified in the 
Grant Notice is referred to as the “Participant.”  The effective date of grant of the Award as set forth in 
the Grant Notice is referred to as the “Award Date.”  The Award was granted under and is subject to the 
provisions of the Apple Inc. 2014 Employee Stock Plan (the “Plan”).  Capitalized terms are defined in the 
Plan if not defined herein.  The Award is discretionary and has been granted to the Participant in addition 
to, and not in lieu of, any other form of compensation otherwise payable or to be paid to the Participant.  
The Grant Notice and these Terms (including Exhibit A hereto, incorporated herein by this reference) are 
collectively referred to as the “Award Agreement” applicable to the Award.

2.

Stock  Units.    As  used  herein,  the  term  “Stock  Unit”  shall  mean  a  non-voting  unit  of 
measurement which is deemed for bookkeeping purposes to be equivalent to one outstanding share of 
the Company’s Common Stock (“Share”) solely for purposes of the Plan and this Award Agreement.  The 
Stock Units shall be used solely as a device for the determination of the payment to eventually be made 
to the Participant if such Stock Units vest pursuant to this Award Agreement.  The Stock Units shall not be 
treated as property or as a trust fund of any kind.

3.

Vesting.    Subject  to  Sections  4  and  8  below,  the  Award  shall  vest  and  become 
nonforfeitable  as  set  forth  in  the  Grant  Notice  and  Exhibit  A  hereto.    (The  vesting  date  set  forth  in  the 
Grant Notice is referred to herein as a “Vesting Date”).

4.

Continuance  of  Employment.    Except  as  provided  in  this  Section  4  and  in  Section  8 
below, vesting of the Award requires continued active employment or service through the Vesting Date as 
a  condition  to  the  vesting  of  the  Award  and  the  rights  and  benefits  under  this  Award  Agreement.  
Employment or service for only a portion of the vesting period, even if a substantial portion, will not entitle 
the Participant to any proportionate vesting of the Award.  For purposes of this Award Agreement, active 
service  shall  include  (a)  the  duration  of  an  approved  leave  of  absence  (other  than  a  personal  leave  of 
absence)  and  (b)  the  first  thirty  (30)  days  of  an  approved  personal  leave  of  absence,  in  each  case  as 
approved by the Company, in its sole discretion.  The vesting of the Award shall be tolled beginning on 
the thirty-first (31st) day of a personal leave of absence.

Nothing  contained  in  this  Award  Agreement  or  the  Plan  constitutes  an  employment  or  service 
commitment  by  the  Company,  affects  the  Participant’s  status  as  an  employee  at  will  who  is  subject  to 
termination  with  or  without  cause,  confers  upon  the  Participant  any  right  to  remain  employed  by  or  in 
service  to  the  Company  or  any  Subsidiary,  interferes  in  any  way  with  the  right  of  the  Company  or  any 
Subsidiary at any time to terminate such employment or services, or affects the right of the Company or 
any Subsidiary to increase or decrease the Participant’s other compensation or benefits.  Nothing in this 
Section  4,  however,  is  intended  to  adversely  affect  any  independent  contractual  right  of  the  Participant 
without his or her consent thereto.

1

5.

Dividend and Voting Rights.

(a)

Limitations on Rights Associated with Stock Units.  The Participant shall have 
no rights as a shareholder of the Company, no dividend rights (except as expressly provided in Section 
5(b) with respect to Dividend Equivalent Rights) and no voting rights, with respect to the Stock Units or 
any Shares underlying or issuable in respect of such Stock Units until such Shares are actually issued to 
and  held  of  record  by  the  Participant.    No  adjustments  will  be  made  for  dividends  or  other  rights  of  a 
holder  for  which  the  record  date  is  prior  to  the  date  of  issuance  of  the  stock  certificate  or  book  entry 
evidencing such Shares.

(b)  Dividend  Equivalent  Rights  Distributions.    As  of  any  date  that  the  Company 
pays  an  ordinary  cash  dividend  on  its  Shares,  the  Company  shall  credit  the  Participant  with  a  dollar 
amount  equal  to  (i)  the  per  share  cash  dividend  paid  by  the  Company  on  its  Shares  on  such  date, 
multiplied  by  (ii)  the  total  target  number  of  Stock  Units  (with  such  total  number  adjusted  pursuant  to 
Section 11 of the Plan) subject to the Award that are outstanding immediately prior to the record date for 
that dividend (a “Dividend Equivalent Right”).  Any Dividend Equivalent Rights credited pursuant to the 
foregoing provisions of this Section 5(b) shall be subject to the same vesting, payment and other terms, 
conditions  and  restrictions  as  the  original  Stock  Units  to  which  they  relate,  including  the  obligation  to 
satisfy  the  Tax-Related  Items;  provided,  however,  that  the  amount  of  any  vested  Dividend  Equivalent 
Rights shall be paid in cash.  For purposes of clarity, the percentage of the Dividend Equivalent Rights 
that are paid will correspond to the percentage of the total target number of Stock Units that vest on the 
Vesting Date, after giving effect to Exhibit A.  No crediting of Dividend Equivalent Rights shall be made 
pursuant to this Section 5(b) with respect to any Stock Units which, immediately prior to the record date 
for  that  dividend,  have  either  been  paid  pursuant  to  Section  7  or  terminated  pursuant  to  Section  8  or 
Exhibit A.

6.

Restrictions on Transfer.    Except  as  provided  in  Section  4(c)  of  the  Plan,  the  Award, 
the Dividend Equivalent Rights and any interest therein or amount or Shares payable in respect thereof 
shall  not  be  sold,  assigned,  transferred,  pledged  or  otherwise  disposed  of,  alienated  or  encumbered, 
either voluntarily or involuntarily.

7.

Timing  and  Manner  of  Payment  of  Stock  Units.    On  or  as  soon  as  administratively 
practical following the vesting event pursuant to Section 3 or Section 8 (and in all events not later than 
two and one-half (2 ½) months after such vesting event), the Company shall deliver to the Participant a 
number  of  Shares  (either  by  delivering  one  or  more  certificates  for  such  Shares  or  by  entering  such 
Shares in book entry form, as determined by the Company in its discretion) equal to the number of Stock 
Units subject to the Award that vest on the Vesting Date, less Tax-Related Items (as defined in Section 
11  below),  unless  such  Stock  Units  terminate  prior  to  the  Vesting  Date  pursuant  to  Section  8.    The 
Company’s obligation to deliver Shares or otherwise make payment with respect to vested Stock Units is 
subject to the condition precedent that the Participant or other person entitled under the Plan to receive 
any Shares with respect to the vested Stock Units deliver to the Company any representations or other 
documents or assurances required pursuant to Section 13(c) of the Plan.  The Participant shall have no 
further rights with respect to any Stock Units that are paid or that terminate pursuant to Section 8.

8.

Effect of Termination of Service.  Except as provided in Section 4 or this Section 8, the 
Participant’s Stock Units (as well as the related Dividend Equivalent Rights) shall terminate to the extent 
such Stock Units have not become vested prior to the Participant’s Termination of Service, meaning the 
first  date  the  Participant  is  no  longer  employed  by  or  providing  services  to  the  Company  or  one  of  its 
Subsidiaries  (the  “Severance  Date”),  regardless  of  the  reason  for  the  Participant’s  Termination  of 
Service,  whether  with  or  without  cause,  voluntarily  or  involuntarily  or  whether  the  Participant  was 
employed or provided services for a portion of the vesting period prior to a Vesting Date. In the event the 
Participant’s  Severance  Date  is  the  result  of  the  Participant’s  Termination  of  Service  due  to  the 
Participant’s death or Disability and the Severance Date occurs prior to the Vesting Date, on the Vesting 
Date the Award shall vest with respect to a number of Stock Units determined by multiplying (i) the Stock 

2

Units as well as the related Dividend Equivalent Rights subject to the Award that would have otherwise 
vested pursuant to the Award on such Vesting Date but for the Termination of Service and to the extent 
the  applicable  performance-based  vesting  requirement  is  satisfied,  by  (ii)  the  Severance  Fraction 
(determined as set forth below).  Any Stock Units (as well as the related Dividend Equivalent Rights) that 
are unvested on the Severance Date and that are not eligible to vest on the Vesting Date following the 
Severance Date pursuant to the preceding sentence shall terminate as of the Severance Date, and any 
Stock  Units  that  remain  outstanding  and  unvested  after  giving  effect  to  the  preceding  sentence  shall 
terminate as of the Vesting Date.  The “Severance Fraction” means a fraction, the numerator of which 
shall  be  determined  by  subtracting  the  number  of  days  remaining  in  the  Performance  Period  on  the 
Severance Date from the total number of days in the Performance Period, and the denominator of which 
shall be the total number of days in the Performance Period.  If any unvested Stock Units are terminated 
pursuant to this Award Agreement, such Stock Units (as well as the related Dividend Equivalent Rights) 
shall automatically terminate and be cancelled as of the applicable Severance Date (or, to the extent the 
applicable  performance-based  vesting  conditions  are  not  satisfied,  the  Vesting  Date,  as  provided  in 
Exhibit  A)  without  payment  of  any  consideration  by  the  Company  and  without  any  other  action  by  the 
Participant, or the Participant’s beneficiary or personal representative, as the case may be.

9.

Recoupment.  Notwithstanding any other provision herein, the Award and any Shares or 
other amount or property that may be issued, delivered or paid in respect of the Award, as well as any 
consideration  that  may  be  received  in  respect  of  a  sale  or  other  disposition  of  any  such  Shares  or 
property,  shall  be  subject  to  any  recoupment,  “clawback”  or  similar  provisions  of  applicable  law.    In 
addition,  the  Company  may  require  the  Participant  to  deliver  or  otherwise  repay  to  the  Company  the 
Award and any Shares or other amount or property that may be issued, delivered or paid in respect of the 
Award, as well as any consideration that may be received in respect of a sale or other disposition of any 
such  Shares  or  property,  if  the  Company  reasonably  determines  that  one  or  more  of  the  following  has 
occurred:

(a)

during the period of the Participant’s employment or service with the Company or 
any of its Subsidiaries (the “Employment Period”), the Participant has committed a felony (under 
the  laws  of  the  United  States  or  any  relevant  state,  or  a  similar  crime  or  offense  under  the 
applicable laws of any relevant foreign jurisdiction);

(b)

during  the  Employment  Period  or  at  any  time  thereafter,  the  Participant  has 
committed  or  engaged  in  a  breach  of  confidentiality,  or  an  unauthorized  disclosure  or  use  of 
inside information, customer lists, trade secrets or other confidential information of the Company 
or any of its Subsidiaries;

(c)

during  the  Employment  Period  or  at  any  time  thereafter,  the  Participant  has 
committed  or  engaged  in  an  act  of  theft,  embezzlement  or  fraud,  or  materially  breached  any 
agreement to which the Participant is a party with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.

For purposes of the foregoing, the Participant expressly and explicitly authorizes the Company to 
issue  instructions,  on  the  Participant’s  behalf,  to  any  brokerage  firm  and/or  third  party  administrator 
engaged by the Company to hold the Participant’s Shares and other amounts acquired under the Plan to 
re-convey, transfer or otherwise return such Shares and/or other amounts to the Company. This Section 9 
is not the Company’s exclusive remedy with respect to such matters.

10.

Adjustments Upon Specified Events.  Upon the occurrence of certain events relating to 
the  Company’s  stock  contemplated  by  Section  11  of  the  Plan  (including,  without  limitation,  an 
extraordinary cash dividend on such stock), the Committee shall make adjustments in accordance with 
such section in the number of Stock Units then outstanding and the number and kind of securities that 
may be issued in respect of the Award.  No such adjustment shall be made with respect to any ordinary 
cash dividend for which Dividend Equivalent Rights are credited pursuant to Section 5(b).

3

11.

Responsibility for Taxes.  The Participant acknowledges that, regardless of any action 
the Company and/or the Participant’s employer (“Employer”) take with respect to any or all income tax 
(including U.S. federal, state and local tax and/or non-U.S. tax), social insurance, payroll tax, payment on 
account  or  other  tax-related  items  related  to  the  Participant’s  participation  in  the  Plan  and  legally 
applicable to the Participant or deemed by the Company or the Employer to be an appropriate charge to 
the  Participant  even  if  technically  due  by  the  Company  or  the  Employer  (“Tax-Related  Items”),  the 
ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items is and remains the Participant’s responsibility and may exceed 
the  amount,  if  any,  actually  withheld  by  the  Company  or  the  Employer.    The  Participant  further 
acknowledges  that  the  Company  and/or  the  Employer  (i)  make  no  representations  or  undertakings 
regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Award, including 
the grant of the Stock Units, the vesting of the Stock Units, the delivery of Shares, the subsequent sale of 
any Shares acquired at vesting and the receipt of any dividends and/or Dividend Equivalent Rights; and 
(ii) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the 
Award to reduce or eliminate the Participant’s liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax 
result.  Further, if the Participant is or becomes subject to tax in more than one jurisdiction, the Participant 
acknowledges  that  the  Company  and/or  the  Employer  (or  former  employer,  as  applicable)  may  be 
required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.

Prior to the relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, the Participant shall pay or 
make arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or the Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items.  In 
this regard, the Participant authorizes the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at 
their  discretion  and  pursuant  to  such  procedures  as  they  may  specify  from  time  to  time,  to  satisfy  any 
applicable  withholding  obligations  with  regard  to  all  Tax-Related  Items  by  one  or  a  combination  of  the 
following:

(a) 

withholding  from  any  wages  or  other  cash  compensation  payable  to  the 

Participant by the Company and/or the Employer;

(b) 

withholding  otherwise  deliverable  Shares  and/or 

from  otherwise  payable 

Dividend Equivalent Rights to be issued or paid upon vesting/settlement of the Award;

(c)  

arranging for the sale of Shares otherwise deliverable to the Participant (on the 
Participant’s  behalf  and  at  the  Participant’s  direction  pursuant  to  this  authorization),  including 
selling Shares as part of a block trade with other Participants in the Plan; or

(d) 

withholding  from  the  proceeds  of  the  sale  of  Shares  acquired  upon  vesting/

settlement of the Award.

Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  the  Participant  is  an  officer  of  the  Company  who  is  subject  to 
Section 16 of the Exchange Act, then the Company must satisfy any withholding obligations arising upon 
the  occurrence  of  a  taxable  or  tax  withholding  event,  as  applicable,  by  withholding  Shares  otherwise 
deliverable or an amount otherwise payable upon settlement of Dividend Equivalent Rights pursuant to 
method  (b),  unless  the  Board  or  the  Committee  determines  in  its  discretion  to  satisfy  the  obligation  for 
Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of methods (a), (b), (c), and (d) above.

 
The  Company  may  withhold  or  account  for  Tax-Related  Items  by  considering  statutory 
withholding amounts or other withholding rates, including maximum rates applicable in the Participant's 
jurisdiction(s).  If the maximum rate is used, any over-withheld amount may be refunded to the Participant 
in cash by the Company or Employer (with no entitlement to the Share equivalent) or if not refunded, the 
Participant  may  seek  a  refund  from  the  local  tax  authorities.    In  the  event  of  under-withholding,  the 
Participant may be required to pay additional Tax-Related Items directly to the applicable tax authority or 
to the Company or Employer.  If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding a number 
of Shares as described herein, for tax purposes, the Participant is deemed to have been issued the full 
number  of  Shares  subject  to  the  vested  Stock  Units,  notwithstanding  that  a  number  of  the  Shares  are 

4

held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items.  The Company may refuse to issue or 
deliver  to  the  Participant  any  Shares  or  the  proceeds  of  the  sale  of  Shares  if  the  Participant  fails  to 
comply with the Participant’s obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items.

12.

Electronic Delivery and Acceptance.  The Company may, in its sole discretion, deliver 
any  documents  related  to  the  Award  by  electronic  means  or  request  the  Participant’s  consent  to 
participate  in  the  Plan  by  electronic  means.    The  Participant  hereby  consents  to  receive  all  applicable 
documentation  by  electronic  delivery  and  to  participate  in  the  Plan  through  an  on-line  (and/or  voice 
activated) system established and maintained by the Company or a third party vendor designated by the 
Company.

13.

Data  Privacy.    The  Participant  acknowledges  and  consents  to  the  collection,  use, 
processing  and  transfer  of  personal  data  as  described  in  this  Section  13.    The  Company,  its  related 
entities,  and  the  Employer  hold  certain  personal  information  about  the  Participant,  including  the 
Participant’s  name,  home  address  and  telephone  number,  email  address,  date  of  birth,  social  security 
number or other employee identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any Shares or directorships 
held in the Company, details of all Stock Units or any other entitlement to Shares or equivalent benefits 
awarded, canceled, purchased, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Participant’s favor, for the purpose 
of managing and administering the Plan (“Data”).  The Company and its related entities may transfer Data 
amongst themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and management of 
the  Participant’s  participation  in  the  Plan,  and  the  Company  and  its  related  entities  may  each  further 
transfer Data to any third parties assisting the Company or any such related entity in the implementation, 
administration  and  management  of  the  Plan.    The  Participant  acknowledges  that  the  transferors  and 
transferees of such Data may be located anywhere in the world and hereby authorizes each of them to 
receive,  possess,  use,  retain  and  transfer  the  Data,  in  electronic  or  other  form,  for  the  purposes  of 
implementing,  administering  and  managing  the  Participant’s  participation  in  the  Plan,  including  any 
transfer of such Data as may be required for the administration of the Plan and/or the subsequent holding 
of  Shares  on  the  Participant’s  behalf  to  a  broker  or  to  other  third  party  with  whom  the  Participant  may 
elect to deposit any Shares acquired under the Plan (whether pursuant to the Award or otherwise).

14.

Notices.    Any  notice  to  be  given  under  the  terms  of  this  Award  Agreement  shall  be  in 
writing and addressed to the Company at its principal office to the attention of the Secretary, and to the 
Participant at the Participant’s last address reflected on the Company’s records, or at such other address 
as either party may hereafter designate in writing to the other.  Any such notice shall be given only when 
received, but if the Participant is no longer an employee of the Company, shall be deemed to have been 
duly  given  by  the  Company  when  enclosed  in  a  properly  sealed  envelope  addressed  as  aforesaid, 
registered or certified, and deposited (postage and registry or certification fee prepaid) in a post office or 
branch post office regularly maintained by the United States Government.

15.

Plan.    The  Award  and  all  rights  of  the  Participant  under  this  Award  Agreement  are 
subject to the terms and conditions of the provisions of the Plan, incorporated herein by reference.  The 
Participant  agrees  to  be  bound  by  the  terms  of  the  Plan  and  this  Award  Agreement.    The  Participant 
acknowledges  having  read  and  understood  the  Plan,  the  Prospectus  for  the  Plan,  and  this  Award 
Agreement.  Unless otherwise expressly provided in other sections of this Award Agreement, provisions 
of  the  Plan  that  confer  discretionary  authority  on  the  Board  or  the  Committee  do  not  (and  shall  not  be 
deemed  to)  create  any  rights  in  the  Participant  unless  such  rights  are  expressly  set  forth  herein  or  are 
otherwise in the sole discretion of the Board or the Committee so conferred by appropriate action of the 
Board or the Committee under the Plan after the date hereof.

16.

Entire Agreement.    This  Award  Agreement  and  the  Plan  together  constitute  the  entire 
agreement and supersede all prior understandings and agreements, written or oral, of the parties hereto 
with  respect  to  the  subject  matter  hereof.    The  Plan  and  this  Award  Agreement  may  be  amended 
pursuant to Section 15 of the Plan.  Such amendment must be in writing and signed by the Company.  
The Company may, however, unilaterally waive any provision hereof in writing to the extent such waiver 

5

does not adversely affect the interests of the Participant hereunder, but no such waiver shall operate as 
or  be  construed  to  be  a  subsequent  waiver  of  the  same  provision  or  a  waiver  of  any  other  provision 
hereof.

17.

Limitation  on  the  Participant’s  Rights.    Participation  in  the  Plan  confers  no  rights  or 
interests other than as herein provided.  This Award Agreement creates only a contractual obligation on 
the part of the Company as to amounts payable and shall not be construed as creating a trust.  Neither 
the Plan nor any underlying program, in and of itself, has any assets.  The Participant shall have only the 
rights  of  a  general  unsecured  creditor  of  the  Company  with  respect  to  amounts  credited  and  benefits 
payable, if any, with respect to the Stock Units, and rights no greater than the right to receive the Shares 
as a general unsecured creditor with respect to Stock Units, as and when payable hereunder.

18.

Section Headings.  The section headings of this Award Agreement are for convenience 

of reference only and shall not be deemed to alter or affect any provision hereof.

19.

Governing  Law.    This  Award  Agreement  shall  be  governed  by  and  construed  and 
enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to conflict of law principles 
thereunder.

20.

Choice of Venue.  For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises directly or indirectly 
from the relationship of the parties evidenced by this grant or this Award Agreement, the parties hereby 
submit  to  the  exclusive  jurisdiction  of  the  State  of  California  and  agree  that  such  litigation  shall  be 
conducted  only  in  the  courts  of  Santa  Clara  County,  California,  or  the  federal  courts  for  the  Northern 
District of California, and no other courts, where this grant is made and/or to be performed.

21.

Construction.  It is intended that the terms of the Award will not result in the imposition 
of any tax liability pursuant to Section 409A of the Code.  This Award Agreement shall be construed and 
interpreted consistent with that intent.

22.

Severability.  The provisions of this Award Agreement are severable and if any one of 
more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining 
provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable.

23.

Imposition of Other Requirements.  The Company reserves the right to impose other 
requirements on the Participant’s participation in the Plan, on the Stock Units and on any Shares acquired 
under  the  Plan,  to  the  extent  the  Company  determines  it  is  necessary  or  advisable  for  legal  or 
administrative reasons, and to require the Participant to sign any additional agreements or undertakings 
that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.

* * * * *

6

PERFORMANCE AWARD

EXHIBIT A

PERFORMANCE VESTING REQUIREMENTS

The Stock Units (and related Dividend Equivalent Rights) subject to the Award that will vest on 
the  Vesting  Date  will  be  determined  based  on  the  Company’s  relative  total  shareholder  return  (“TSR”) 
Percentile for the Performance Period.

The  percentage  of  the  Stock  Units  (and  related  Dividend  Equivalent  Rights)  that  vest  on  the 

Vesting Date will be determined as follows:

•

•

•

•

If  the  Company’s  TSR  Percentile  for  the  Performance  Period  is  at  the  [          ]  ([          ]) 
percentile or greater, [     ] ([     ]%) of the target Stock Units will vest on the Vesting Date.

If  the  Company’s  TSR  Percentile  for  the  Performance  Period  is  at  the  [          ]  ([          ]) 
percentile, [     ] ([     ]%) of the target Stock Units will vest on the Vesting Date.

If  the  Company’s  TSR  Percentile  for  the  Performance  Period  is  at  the  [          ]  ([          ]) 
percentile, [     ] ([     ]%) of the target Stock Units will vest on the Vesting Date.

If the Company’s TSR Percentile for the Performance Period is below the [     ]    ([     ]) 
percentile, [     ] ([     ]%) of the Stock Units will vest on the Vesting Date.

For TSR Percentile performance for the Performance Period between the levels indicated above, 
the portion of the Stock Units that will vest on the Vesting Date will be determined on a straight-line basis 
(i.e., linearly interpolated) between the two nearest vesting percentages indicated above.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company’s TSR for the Performance Period is negative, in 

no event shall more than one hundred percent (100%) of the target Stock Units vest.

The number of Stock Units that vest on the Vesting Date will be rounded to the nearest whole 

unit, and the balance of the Stock Units will not vest and will terminate on that Vesting Date.

 

For purposes of the Award, the following definitions will apply:

•

•

“TSR Percentile” means the percentile ranking of the Company’s TSR among the TSRs 
for  the  Comparison  Group  members  for  the  Performance  Period.    In  determining  the 
Company’s TSR Percentile for the Performance Period, in the event that the Company’s 
TSR for the Performance Period is equal to the TSR(s) of one or more other Comparison 
Group  members  for  that  same  period,  the  Company’s  TSR  Percentile  ranking  will  be 
determined  by  ranking  the  Company’s  TSR  for  that  period  as  being  greater  than  such 
other Comparison Group members.

“Comparison  Group”  means  the  Company  and  each  other  company  included  in  the 
Standard & Poor’s 500 index on the first day of the Performance Period and, except as 
provided  below,  the  common  stock  (or  similar  equity  security)  of  which  continues  to  be 
listed  or  traded  on  a  national  securities  exchange  through  the  last  trading  day  of  the 
Performance  Period.    In  the  event  a  member  of  the  Comparison  Group  files  for 
bankruptcy or liquidates due to an insolvency, such company shall continue to be treated 
as a Comparison Group member, and such company’s Ending Price will be treated as $0 
if  the  common  stock  (or  similar  equity  security)  of  such  company  is  no  longer  listed  or 

A-1

traded  on  a  national  securities  exchange  on  the  last  trading  day  of  the  Performance 
Period.    In  the  event  of  a  formation  of  a  new  parent  company  by  a  Comparison  Group 
member,  substantially  all  of  the  assets  and  liabilities  of  which  consist  immediately  after 
the  transaction  of  the  equity  interests  in  the  original  Comparison  Group  member  or  the 
assets  and  liabilities  of  such  Comparison  Group  member  immediately  prior  to  the 
transaction,  such  new  parent  company  shall  be  substituted  for  the  Comparison  Group 
member to the extent (and for such period of time) as its common stock (or similar equity 
securities) are listed or traded on a national securities exchange but the common stock 
(or  similar  equity  securities)  of  the  original  Comparison  Group  member  are  not.    In  the 
event  of  a  merger  or  other  business  combination  of  two  Comparison  Group  members 
(including, without limitation, the acquisition of one Comparison Group member, or all or 
substantially  all  of  its  assets,  by  another  Comparison  Group  member),  the  surviving, 
resulting  or  successor  entity,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall  continue  to  be  treated  as  a 
member  of  the  Comparison  Group,  provided  that  the  common  stock  (or  similar  equity 
security) of such entity is listed or traded on a national securities exchange through the 
last trading day of the Performance Period.  With respect to the preceding two sentences, 
the applicable stock prices shall be equitably and proportionately adjusted to the extent (if 
any) necessary to preserve the intended incentives of the awards and mitigate the impact 
of the transaction.

•

•

•

“TSR”  shall  be  determined  with  respect  to  the  Company  and  any  other  Comparison 
Group member by dividing: (a) the sum of (i) the difference obtained by subtracting the 
applicable  Beginning  Price  from  the  applicable  Ending  Price  plus  (ii)  all  dividends  and 
other distributions during the Performance Period by (b) the applicable Beginning Price.  
Any  non-cash  distributions  shall  be  valued  at  fair  market  value.    For  the  purpose  of 
determining  TSR,  the  value  of  dividends  and  other  distributions  shall  be  determined  by 
treating them as reinvested in additional shares of stock at the closing market price on 
the date of distribution.

“Beginning  Price”  means,  with  respect  to  the  Company  and  any  other  Comparison 
Group  member,  the  average  of  the  closing  market  prices  of  such  company’s  common 
stock  on  the  principal  exchange  on  which  such  stock  is  traded  for  the  twenty  (20) 
consecutive trading days beginning with the first trading day of the Performance Period.  
For  the  purpose  of  determining  Beginning  Price,  the  value  of  dividends  and  other 
distributions  shall  be  determined  by  treating  them  as  reinvested  in  additional  shares  of 
stock at the closing market price on the date of distribution.

“Ending Price” means, with respect to the Company and any other Comparison Group 
member, the average of the closing market prices of such company’s common stock on 
the  principal  exchange  on  which  such  stock  is  traded  for  the  twenty  (20)  consecutive 
trading days ending on the last trading day of the Performance Period.  For the purpose 
of  determining  Ending  Price,  the  value  of  dividends  and  other  distributions  shall  be 
determined  by  treating  them  as  reinvested  in  additional  shares  of  stock  at  the  closing 
market price on the date of distribution.

 
With respect to the computation of TSR, Beginning Price, and Ending Price, there shall also be 
an  equitable  and  proportionate  adjustment  to  the  extent  (if  any)  necessary  to  preserve  the  intended 
incentives of the awards and mitigate the impact of any stock split, stock dividend or reverse stock split 
occurring during the Performance Period (or during the applicable 20-day period in determining Beginning 
Price or Ending Price, as the case may be).

 
and binding.

In the event of any ambiguity or discrepancy, the determination of the Committee shall be final 

* * * * *

A-2

Subsidiaries of

Apple Inc.*

Apple Canada Inc.
Apple Computer Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.
Apple Distribution International Limited
Apple Europe Limited
Apple France
Apple GmbH
Apple Japan, Inc.
Apple Operations Limited
Apple Operations Europe Limited
Apple Operations International Limited
Apple Pty Limited
Apple Sales International Limited
Apple Value Services, LLC
Braeburn Capital, Inc.

Exhibit 21.1

Jurisdiction

of Incorporation

Canada
China
Ireland

United Kingdom

France
Germany

Japan
Ireland
Ireland
Ireland
Australia
Ireland

Virginia, U.S.
Nevada, U.S.

          *  Pursuant  to  Item  601(b)(21)(ii)  of  Regulation  S-K,  the  names  of  other  subsidiaries  of  Apple  Inc.  are  omitted  because, 
considered in the aggregate, they would not constitute a significant subsidiary as of the end of the year covered by this 
report.

Exhibit 23.1

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

Registration Statement (Form S-3 ASR No. 333-228159) of Apple Inc.,

Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-226986) pertaining to Apple Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan,

Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-203698) pertaining to Apple Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan,

Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-195509) pertaining to Apple Inc. 2014 Employee Stock Plan,

Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-193709) pertaining to Topsy Labs, Inc. 2007 Stock Plan,

Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-184706) pertaining to AuthenTec, Inc. 2010 Incentive Plan, as amended,

Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-179189) pertaining to Anobit Technologies Ltd. Global Share Incentive Plan 
(2006), and

Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-60455) pertaining to Apple Inc. Non-Employee Director Stock Plan;

of our reports dated October 29, 2020 with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Apple Inc., and the effectiveness 
of  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  of  Apple  Inc.,  included  in  this  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  year  ended 
September 26, 2020.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

San Jose, California
October 29, 2020

Exhibit 31.1

I, Timothy D. Cook, certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Apple Inc.;

CERTIFICATION

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact 
necessary  to  make  the  statements  made,  in  light  of  the  circumstances  under  which  such  statements  were  made,  not 
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all 
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods 
presented in this report;

4. The  Registrant’s  other  certifying  officer(s)  and  I  are  responsible  for  establishing  and  maintaining  disclosure  controls  and 
procedures  (as  defined  in  Exchange  Act  Rules  13a-15(e)  and  15d-15(e))  and  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  (as 
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be 
designed  under  our  supervision,  to  ensure  that  material  information  relating  to  the  Registrant,  including  its 
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in 
which this report is being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting 
to  be  designed  under  our  supervision,  to  provide  reasonable  assurance  regarding  the  reliability  of  financial 
reporting  and  the  preparation  of  financial  statements  for  external  purposes  in  accordance  with  generally 
accepted accounting principles;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the Registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report 
our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period 
covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed  in  this  report  any  change  in  the  Registrant’s  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  that  occurred 
during the Registrant’s most recent fiscal quarter (the Registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual 
report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrant’s internal control 
over financial reporting; and

5. The Registrant’s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over 
financial  reporting,  to  the  Registrant’s  auditors  and  the  audit  committee  of  the  Registrant’s  board  of  directors  (or  persons 
performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial 
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the Registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize 
and report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role 

in the Registrant’s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: October 29, 2020

By:

/s/ Timothy D. Cook
Timothy D. Cook
Chief Executive Officer

Exhibit 31.2

I, Luca Maestri, certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Apple Inc.;

CERTIFICATION

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact 
necessary  to  make  the  statements  made,  in  light  of  the  circumstances  under  which  such  statements  were  made,  not 
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all 
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods 
presented in this report;

4. The  Registrant’s  other  certifying  officer(s)  and  I  are  responsible  for  establishing  and  maintaining  disclosure  controls  and 
procedures  (as  defined  in  Exchange  Act  Rules  13a-15(e)  and  15d-15(e))  and  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  (as 
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be 
designed  under  our  supervision,  to  ensure  that  material  information  relating  to  the  Registrant,  including  its 
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in 
which this report is being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting 
to  be  designed  under  our  supervision,  to  provide  reasonable  assurance  regarding  the  reliability  of  financial 
reporting  and  the  preparation  of  financial  statements  for  external  purposes  in  accordance  with  generally 
accepted accounting principles;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the Registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report 
our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period 
covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed  in  this  report  any  change  in  the  Registrant’s  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  that  occurred 
during the Registrant’s most recent fiscal quarter (the Registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual 
report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrant’s internal control 
over financial reporting; and

5. The Registrant’s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over 
financial  reporting,  to  the  Registrant’s  auditors  and  the  audit  committee  of  the  Registrant’s  board  of  directors  (or  persons 
performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial 
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the Registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize 
and report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role 

in the Registrant’s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: October 29, 2020

By:

/s/ Luca Maestri
Luca Maestri
Senior Vice President,
Chief Financial Officer

CERTIFICATIONS OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

PURSUANT TO

18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,

AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO

SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

Exhibit 32.1

I, Timothy D. Cook, certify, as of the date hereof, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that the Annual Report of Apple Inc. on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 26, 2020 
fully  complies  with  the  requirements  of  Section  13(a)  or  15(d)  of  the  Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934  and  that  information 
contained in such Form 10-K fairly presents in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of Apple Inc. 
at the dates and for the periods indicated.

Date: October 29, 2020

By:

/s/ Timothy D. Cook
Timothy D. Cook
Chief Executive Officer

I, Luca Maestri, certify, as of the date hereof, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that the Annual Report of Apple Inc. on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 26, 2020 
fully  complies  with  the  requirements  of  Section  13(a)  or  15(d)  of  the  Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934  and  that  information 
contained in such Form 10-K fairly presents in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of Apple Inc. 
at the dates and for the periods indicated.

Date: October 29, 2020

By:

/s/ Luca Maestri
Luca Maestri
Senior Vice President,
Chief Financial Officer

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Apple Inc. and will be retained by Apple 
Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

